Johnnie happy at
last
Photo by Miss L. Griscom

Yellow Woodchuck, Rock Chuck or Marmot (Marmota
flaviventer)

Abundant on all mountains. Rocky Mt. Flying Squirrel (Sciuropterus alpinus)

Said to be found. I did not see one. Beaver (Castor canadensis)

Abundant and increasing. Grasshopper Mouse (Onychomys leucogaster)

I found a typical colony of this species on the Yellowstone near
Yancey's but did not secure any. Mountain Deer-mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus artemisiae)

Abundant everywhere. Mountain Rat, Pack-rat or Wood-rat (Neotoma cinerea)

Said to be found, but I saw none. Redbacked Vole or Field-mouse (Evotomys gapperi galei)

Not taken yet in the Park but found in all the surrounding country,
therefore, probable. Common Field-mouse (Microtus pennsylvannicus modestus)

Recorded by Vernon Bailey from Lower Geyser Basin in the Park. Long-tailed Vole (Microtus mordax)

Vernon Bailey records this from various surrounding localities, also
from Tower Falls. Doubtless it is generally distributed. This is the
bobtailed, short-eared, dark gray mouse that is found making runs in the
thick grass, especially in low places. Big-footed Vole (Microtus richardsoni macropus)

Not yet taken in the Park, but found in surrounding mountains,
therefore probable. Muskrat (Fiber zibethicus osoyoosensis)

Common and of general distribution. Mole-gopher or Gray Gopher (Thomomys talpoides)

A Gopher of some kind abounds in the Park. I assume it to be
this. Rocky Mt. Jumping Mouse (Zapus princeps)

Found in all the surrounding country, and recorded by E. A. Preble
from near Yellowstone Lake. Yellow-haired Porcupine (Erethizon epixanthus)

Somewhat common in the pine woods on the Continental Divide. Coney, Rock Rabbit, Pika, or Calling Hare (Ochotona
princeps)

Abundant in all slide rock. Rocky Mt. Cottontail (Sylvilagus nuttalli grangeri)

Plentiful about Gardiner and in some of the lower regions of the
Park, but not general. Snowshoe Rabbit (Lepus bairdi)

Common and generally distributed. White-tailed Jack Rabbit (Lepus campestris)

Common and generally distributed. Mountain Lion, Cougar or Puma (Felis hippolestes)

In 1897 it was considered extremely rare; probably not more than a
dozen were then living in the Park; since then it seems to have
increased greatly and is now somewhat common in the mountainous parts. Their numbers are given officially at 100 in 1912. Canada Lynx (Lynx canadensis)

Common. Bobcat or Mountain-cat (Lynx uinta)

Somewhat common. The Big-tailed Fox (Vulpes macrourus)

Common. Timber Wolf (Canis occidentalis)

Very rare, noticed only at Hell Roaring Creek and Slough Creek. On
August 25, 1912, Lieut. M. Murray saw two in a meadow two miles
southeast of Snow Shoe Cabin on Slough Creek. They were plainly seen in
broad daylight; and were nearly white. Coyote (Canis latrans)

Abundant everywhere, although officially reckoned they numbered only
400 in 1912. Otter (Lutra canadensis)

Common, particularly around the Lake and the Canyon. Mink (Lutreola vison energumenos)

Common. Long-tailed Weasel (Putorius longicauda)

Said to be found. I did not see any. Short-tailed Weasel (Putorius cicognanii)

Included because its range includes the Park. Marten (Mustela caurina)

Found throughout the Park, but not common. Pekan or Fisher (Mustela pennanti)

Rare. Gen.