S. Anderson tells me that in the early '90's he took
the skin of one from a poacher. Wolverine (Gulo luscus)

Of general distribution, but not common. Northern Skunk (Mephitis hudsonica)

Rare, but found at Mammoth Hot Springs and Yancey's. Badger (Taxidea taxus)

Common. Raccoon or Coon (Procyon lotor)

Said to occur. Fifteen years ago at Gardiner I was shown one that was
said to have been taken in the Park, but it was not certain. Grizzly Bear (Ursus horribilis)

Common. The official count gives 50 in 1912. Blackbear (Ursus americanus)

Abundant and increasing. The official count gives 100 in 1912. Common or Masked Shrew (Sorex personatus)

Never taken, but included because its known range surrounds the
Park. Marsh Shrew or Water Shrew (Neosorex palustris)

Probably occurs there, since its known range surrounds the Park. Long-eared Bat (Corynorhinus macrotis pallescens)

A few were seen in the Devil's Kitchen, Mammoth Hot Springs, and one
sent to the Biological Survey for identification. This is the only Bat
taken, but the following are likely to be found, as their known range
surrounds the Park:

Little Brown Bat (Myotis lucifugus)

Silver-haired Bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans)

Big Brown Bat (Eptesicus fuscus)

Great Hoary Bat (Nycteris cinereus)

Transcriber's
Notes

61: Clomb could be a typo for climb:

(rush as they might and did, and bounded
and clomb,)

123: Changed pased to passed:

(men had passed near)

155: Changed Bitteroot to Bitterroot:

(This took place in the Bitterroot
Mountains)

157: Added missing exclamation point:

(I heard the dreaded cry,
"Yellow-Jackets!")

165: Changed conspicious to conspicuous:

(might otherwise make it too
conspicuous.)

176: Changed inclinded to inclined:

(travellers will be inclined to bunch
them)

196: Changed go to to:

(We went quietly to the edge of the
timber)

210: Plate XL was not included in the original
book. (The picture, such as it is, I give as
Plate XL, c.)

** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WILD ANIMALS AT HOME
***

Updated editions will replace the previous one–the old editions will be
renamed.