G. Seton

One day he was sitting much nearer and grinning in Coyote fashion,
when one of the campers in a spirit of mischief said to the dog, "Chink,
you see that Coyote out there grinning at you. Go and chase him out of
that."

Burning to distinguish himself, that pup set off at full speed, and
every time he struck the ground he let off a war-whoop. Away went the
Coyote and it looked like a good race to us, and to the Picket-pin
Ground-squirrels that sat up high on their mounds to rejoice in the
spectacle of these, their enemies, warring against each other. The Coyote has a way of slouching along, his tail dangling and
tangling with his legs, and his legs loose-jointed, mixing with his
tail. He doesn't seem to work hard but oh! how he does cover the
prairie! And very soon it was clear that in spite of his magnificent
bounds and whoops of glory, Chink was losing ground. A little later the
Coyote obviously had to slack up to keep from running away altogether. It had seemed a good race for a quarter of a mile, but it was nothing to
the race which began when the Coyote turned on Chink. Uttering a
gurgling growl, a bark, and a couple of screeches, he closed in with all
the combined fury of
conscious might and right, pitted against unfair unprovoked attack. And Chink had a rude awakening; his war-whoops gave place to yelps of
dire distress, as he wheeled and made for home. But the Coyote could run
all around him, and nipped him, here and there, and when he would, and
seemed to be cracking a series of good jokes at Chink's expense, nor
ever stopped till the ambitious one of boundless indiscretion was hidden
under his master's bed. This seemed very funny at the time, and I am afraid Chink did not get
the sympathy he was entitled to, for after all he was merely carrying
out orders. But he made up his mind that from that time on, orders or no
orders, he would let Coyotes very much alone. They were not so easy as
they looked. The Coyote, however, had discovered a new amusement. From that day he
simply "laid" for that little dog, and if he found him a hundred yards
or so from camp, would chase and race him back in terror to some
shelter. At last things got so bad that if we went for a ride even, and
Chink followed us, the Coyote would come along, too, and continue his
usual amusement. At first it was funny, and then it became tedious, and at last it was
deeply resented by Chink's
master. A man feels for his dog; he wasn't going to stand still and see
his dog abused. He began to grumble vaguely about "If something didn't
happen pretty soon, something else would." Just what he meant I didn't
ask, but I know that the Coyote disappeared one day, and never was seen
or heard of again. I'm not supposed to know any thing about it, but I
have my suspicions, although in those days the Coyote was a protected
animal. HIS
DISTINGUISHING GIFT

The scientific name of the Coyote (Canis latrans), literally
"Barking Dog," is given for the wonderful yapping chorus with which they
seldom fail to announce their presence in the evening, as they gather at
a safe distance from the campfire. Those not accustomed to the sound are
very ready to think that they are surrounded by a great pack of ravening
Wolves, and get a sufficiently satisfactory thrill of mingled emotions
at the sound. But the guide will reassure you by saying that that great
pack of howling Wolves is nothing more than a harmless little Coyote,
perhaps two, singing their customary vesper song, demonstrating their
wonderful vocal powers. Their usual music begins with a few growling,
gurgling yaps which are rapidly increased in volume and heightened in
pitch, until they
rise into a long squall or scream, which again, as it dies away, breaks
up into a succession of yaps and gurgles. Usually one Coyote begins it,
and the others join in with something like agreement on the scream. I believe I never yet camped in the West without hearing this from
the near hills when night time had come.