They are usually around the trunks in a clump of low trees, and consist
of a small central nest about eight inches across, warm and soft, with a
great mass of
sticks and thorns around and over this, leaving a narrow entrance
well-guarded by an array of cactus spines; then on top of all, a most
wonderful collection of pine cones, shells, pebbles, bones, scraps of
paper and tin, and the skulls of other animals. And when the owner can
add to these works of art or vertu a brass cartridge, a buckle or a
copper rivet, his little bosom is doubtless filled with the same high
joy that any great collector might feel on securing a Raphael or a
Rembrandt. I remember finding an old pipe in one Rat museum. Pistol cartridges
are eagerly sought after, so are saddle buckles, even if he has to cut
them surreptitiously from the saddle of some camper. And when any of
these articles are found missing it is usual to seek out the nearest Rat
house, and here commonly the stolen goods are discovered shamelessly
exposed on top. I remember hearing of a set of false teeth that were
lost in camp, but rescued in this very way. A FREE
TRADER

"Pack" is a Western word meaning "carry," and thus the Rat that
carries off things is the "Pack-rat." But it has another peculiarity. As
though it had a conscience disturbed by pilfering the treasure of
another, it often brings back what may be
considered a fair exchange. Thus a silver-plated spoon may have gone
from its associate cup one night, but in that cup you may find a long
pine cone or a surplus nail, by which token you may know that a Pack-rat
has called and collected. Sometimes this enthusiastic fancier goes off
with food, but leaves something in its place; in one case that I heard
of, the Rat, either with a sense of humour or a mistaken idea of food
values, after having carried off the camp biscuit, had filled the vacant
dish with the round pellets known as "Elk sign." But evidently there is
a disposition to deal fair; not to steal, but to trade. For this reason
the creature is widely known as the "Trade Rat."

Although I have known the Pack-rat for years in the mountains, I
never saw one within the strict lines of the Yellowstone sanctuary. But
the guides all assure me that they are found and manifest the same
disposition here as elsewhere. So that if you should lose sundry bright
things around camp, or some morning find your boots stuffed with
pebbles, deer sign, or thorns, do not turn peevish or charge the guide
with folly; it means, simply, you have been visited by a Mountain Rat,
and any uneatables you miss will doubtless be found in his
museum, which will be discovered within a hundred yards–a mass of sticks
and rubbish under a tree–with some
bright and shiny things on the top where the owner can sit amongst them
on sunny days, and gloat till his little black eyes are a-swim, and his
small heart filled with holy joy. THE
UPHEAVER–THE MOLE-GOPHER

Pack-rat nest

Pack-rat nest

As you cross any of the level, well-grassed prairie regions in the
Yellowstone you will see piles of soft earth thrown up in little
hillocks, sometimes a score or more of them bunched together. The
drivers will tell you that these are molehills, which isn't quite true. For the Mole is a creature unknown in the Park, and the animal that
makes these mounds is exceedingly abundant. It is the common
Mole-gopher, a gopher related very distantly to the Prairie-dog and
Mountain Whistler, but living the underground life of a Mole, though not
even in the same order as that interesting miner, for the Mole-gopher is
a rodent (Order Rodentia) and the Mole a bug-eater (Order
Insectivora); just as different as Lion and Caribou. The Mole-gopher is about the size of a rat, but has a short tail and
relatively immense forepaws and claws. It is indeed wonderfully
developed as a digger.