If it is a fair example, it
will make fully half a bushel. Next
count the mounds that are within a radius of fifty paces; probably all
are the work of this Gopher, or rather this pair, for they believe in
team play. Search over the ground carefully, and you will discern that there are
scores of ancient mounds flattened by the weather, and traces of
hundreds, perhaps, that date from remote years. Now multiply the size of one mound by the number of mounds, and you
will have some idea of the work done by this pair. Finally, remembering
that there may be a pair of Gophers for every acre in the Park, estimate
the tons of earth moved by one pair and multiply it by the acres in the
Park, and you will get an idea of the work done by those energetic
rodents as a body, and you will realize how well he has won his Indian
name, the "Upheaver."

We are accustomed to talk of upheaval in geology as a frightful upset
of all nature, but here before our eyes is going on an upheaval of
enormous extent and importance, but so gently and pleasantly done that
we enjoy every phase of the process. The Mole-gopher

The Mole-gopher

III

Famous Fur-bearers–

III

Famous Fur-bearers

FOX,
MARTEN, BEAVER, AND OTTER

Fair Lady Multo Millionaire riding in the dusty stagecoach, comparing
as you go the canyons of the Yellowstone with memories of Colorado,
Overland, and Stalheim, you, in your winter home, know all about fur as
it enters your world with its beauty, its warmth, its price–its gauge of
the wearer's pocket. Let me add a segment of the circle to round your
knowledge out. When nature peopled with our four-foot kin the cold north lands, it
was necessary to clothe these little brethren of ours in a coat that
should be absolutely warm, light, durable, of protective colour, thick
in cold weather, thin in warm. Under these conditions she produced
fur, with its densely woolly undercoat and its long, soft,
shining outer coat, one for warmth, the other for wet and wear. Some
northern animals can store up food in
holes or in the fat of their bodies, so need not be out when the
intensest cold is on the land. Some have to face the weather all winter,
and in these we find the fur of its best quality. Of this class are the
Marten and the Northern Fox. They are the finest, warmest, lightest,
softest of all furs. But colour is a cardinal point when beauty is
considered and where fashion is Queen. So the choicest colours are the
soft olive brown with silver hairs, found in the Russian Sable, and the
glossy black with silver hairs, found in the true Silver Fox of the
North. THE MOST
WONDERFUL FUR IN THE WORLD

What is the Silver Fox? Simply a black freak, a brunette born into a
red-headed family. But this does not cast any reflection on the mother
or on father's lineage. On the contrary, it means that they had in them
an element of exceptional vigour, which resulted in a peculiar
intensifying of all pigments, transmuting red into black and carrying
with it an unusual vigour of growth and fineness of texture, producing,
in short, the world-famed Silver Fox, the lightest, softest, thickest,
warmest, and most lustrous of furs, the fur worth many times its weight
in gold, and with this single fault, that it does not stand long
wear. V.