You won't see him. You
should rather sit and enjoy the truly wildwood ring of his music. In the morning if you look hard in the dust and mud, you may find his
tracks, and once in a while you will see his yellow-brown form drifting
on the prairie as though wind-blown under sail of that enormous tail. For this is the big-tailed variety of Red Fox. But if you wish to see the Fox in all his glory you must be here in
winter, when the deep snow cutting off all other foods brings all the
Fox population about the hotels whose winter keepers daily throw out
scraps for which the Foxes, the Magpies, and a dozen other creatures
wait and fight. From a friend, connected with one of the Park hotels during the early
'90's, I learned that among the big-tailed pensioners of the inn, there
appeared one winter a wonderful Silver Fox; and I heard many rumours
about that Fox. I was told that he disappeared, and did not die of
sickness, old age, or wild-beast violence; and what I heard I may tell
in a different form, only, be it remembered, the names of the persons
and places are disguised, as well as the date; and my informant may have
brought in details that belonged elsewhere. So that you are free to
question much of the account, but the backbone of it is not open to
doubt, and some of the guides in the Park can give you details that I do
not care to put on paper. THE
POACHER AND THE SILVER FOX

How is it that all mankind has a sneaking sympathy with a poacher? A
burglar or a pickpocket has our unmitigated contempt; he clearly is a
criminal; but you will notice that the poacher in the story is generally
a reckless dare-devil with a large and compensatory amount of
good-fellow in his make-up–yes, I almost said, of good citizenship. I
suppose, because in addition to the breezy, romantic character of his
calling, seasoned with physical danger as well as moral risk, there is
away down in human nature a strong feeling that, in spite of man-made
laws, the ancient ruling holds that "wild game belongs to no man till
some one makes it his property by capture." It may be wrong, it may be
right, but I have heard this doctrine voiced by red men and white, as
primitive law, once or twice; and have seen it lived up to a thousand
times. Well, Josh Cree was a poacher. This does not mean that every night in
every month he went forth with nefarious tricks and tools, to steal the
flesh and fur that legally were not his. Far from it. Josh never poached
but once. But that's enough; he had crossed the line, and this is how it
came about:

As you roll up the Yellowstone from Livingston to
Gardiner you may note a little ranch-house on the west of the track with
its log stables, its corral, its irrigation ditch, and its alfalfa patch
of morbid green. It is a small affair, for it was founded by the
handiwork of one honest man, who with his wife and small boy left
Pennsylvania, braved every danger of the plains, and secured this claim
in the late '80's. Old man Cree–he was only forty, but every married man
is "Old Man" in the West–was ready to work at any honest calling from
logging or sluicing to grading and muling. He was strong and steady, his
wife was steady and strong. They saved their money, and little by little
they got the small ranch-house built and equipped; little by little they
added to their stock on the range with the cattle of a neighbour, until
there came the happy day when they went to live on their own
ranch–father, mother, and fourteen-year-old Josh, with every prospect of
making it pay. The spreading of that white tablecloth for the first time
was a real religious ceremony, and the hard workers gave thanks to the
All-father for His blessing on their every effort. One year afterward a new event brought joy; there entered happily
into their happy house a little girl, and all the prairie smiled about
them. Surely their boat was well beyond the breakers. But right in the sunshine of their joy the trouble cloud arose to
block the sky. Old man Cree was missing one day. His son rode long and
far on the range for two hard days before he sighted a grazing pony, and
down a rocky hollow near, found his father, battered and weak, near
death, with a broken leg and a gash in his head. He could only gasp "Water" as Josh hurried up, and the boy rushed off
to fill his hat at the nearest stream. They had no talk, for the father swooned after drinking, and Josh had
to face the situation; but he was Western trained. He stripped himself
of all spare clothing, and his father's horse of its saddle blanket;
then, straightening out the sick man, he wrapped him in the clothes and
blanket, and rode like mad for the nearest ranch-house. The neighbour, a
young man, came at once, with a pot to make tea, an axe, and a rope. They found the older Cree conscious but despairing. A fire was made, and
hot tea revived him. Then Josh cut two long poles from the nearest
timber and made a stretcher, or travois, Indian fashion, the upper ends
fast to the saddle of a horse, while the other ends trailed on the
ground. Thus by a long, slow journey the wounded man got back. All he
had prayed for was to get home. Every invalid is sure that if only
he can get home all will soon be well. Mother was not yet strong, the
baby needed much care, but Josh was a good boy, and the loving best of
all was done for the sick one. His leg, set by the army surgeon of Fort
Yellowstone, was knit again after a month, but had no power. He had no
force; the shock of those two dire days was on him. The second month
went by, and still he lay in bed. Poor Josh was the man of the place
now, and between duties, indoors and out, he was worn body and soul. Then it was clear they must have help. So Jack S–– was engaged at the
regular wages of $40 a month for outside work, and a year of struggle
went by, only to see John Cree in his grave, his cattle nearly all gone,
his widow and boy living in a house on which was still $500 of the
original mortgage. Josh was a brave boy and growing strong, but
unboyishly grave with the weight of care. He sold off the few cattle
that were left, and set about keeping the roof over his mother and baby
sister by working a truck farm for the market supplied by the summer
hotels of the Park, and managed to come out even. He would in time have
done well, but he could not get far enough ahead to meet that 10 per
cent mortgage already overdue. The banker was not a hard man, but he was in the
business for the business. He extended the time, and waited for interest
again and again, but it only made the principal larger, and it seemed
that the last ditch was reached, that it would be best to let the
money-man foreclose, though that must mean a wipe-out and would leave
the fatherless family homeless. Winter was coming on, work was scarce, and Josh went to Gardiner to
see what he could get in the way of house or wage. He learned of a
chance to 'substitute' for the Park mail-carrier, who had sprained his
foot. It was an easy drive to Fort Yellowstone, and there he readily
agreed, when they asked him, to take the letters and packages and go on
farther to the Canyon Hotel. Thus it was that on the 20th day of
November 189–, Josh Cree, sixteen years old, tall and ruddy, rode
through the snow to the kitchen door of the Canyon Hotel and was
welcomed as though he were old Santa Claus himself. Two Magpies on a tree were among the onlookers. The Park Bears were
denned up, but there were other fur-bearers about. High on the wood-pile
sat a Yellow Red Fox in a magnificent coat. Another was in front of the
house, and the keeper said that as many as a dozen came some days. And
sometimes, he said, there also came a wonderful
Silver Fox, a size bigger than the rest, black as coal, with eyes like
yellow diamonds, and a silver frosting like little stars on his midnight
fur. "My!