but he's a beauty. That skin would buy the best team of mules on
the Yellowstone." That was interesting and furnished talk for a while. In the morning when they were rising for their candlelight breakfast,
the hotel man glancing from the window exclaimed, "Here he is now!" and
Josh peered forth to see in the light of sunrise something he had often
heard of, but never before seen, a coal-black Fox, a giant among his
kind. How slick and elegant his glossy fur, how slim his legs, and what
a monstrous bushy tail; and the other Foxes moved aside as the patrician
rushed in impatient haste to seize the food thrown out by the cook. "Ain't he a beauty?" said the hotel man. "I'll bet that pelt would
fetch five hundred."

Oh, why did he say "five hundred," the exact sum, for then it was
that the tempter entered into Josh Cree's heart. Five hundred dollars! just the amount of the mortgage. "Who owns wild beasts? The man that
kills them," said the tempter, and the thought was a live one in his
breast as Josh rode back to Fort Yellowstone. At Gardiner he received his pay, $6, for three days'
work and, turning it into groceries, set out for the poor home that soon
would be lost to him, and as he rode he did some hard and gloomy
thinking. On his wrist there hung a wonderful Indian quirt of plaited
rawhide and horsehair with beads on the shaft, and a band of Elk teeth
on the butt. It was a pet of his, and "good medicine," for a flat piece
of elkhorn let in the middle was perforated with a hole, through which
the distant landscape was seen much clearer–a well-known law, an ancient
trick, but it made the quirt prized as a thing of rare virtue, and Josh
had refused good offers for it. Then a figure afoot was seen, and coming
nearer, it turned out to be a friend, Jack Day, out a-gunning with a .22
rifle. But game was scarce and Jack was returning to Gardiner
empty-handed and disgusted. They stopped for a moment's greeting when
Day said: "Huntin's played out now. How'll you swap that quirt for my
rifle?" A month before Josh would have scorned the offer. A ten-dollar
quirt for a five-dollar rifle, but now he said briefly: "For rifle with
cover, tools and ammunition complete, I'll go ye." So the deal was made
and in an hour Josh was home. He stabled Grizzle, the last of their
saddle stock, and entered. Love and sorrow dwelt in the widow's home, but the
return of Josh brought its measure of joy. Mother prepared the regular
meal of tea, potatoes, and salt pork; there was a time when they had
soared as high as canned goods, but those prosperous days were gone. Josh was dandling baby sister on his lap as he told of his trip, and he
learned of two things of interest: First, the bank must have its money
by February; second, the stable at Gardiner wanted a driver for the Cook
City stage. Then the little events moved quickly. His half-formed plan
of getting back to the Canyon was now frustrated by the new opening,
and, besides this, hope had been dampened by the casual word of one who
reported that "that Silver Fox had not been seen since at the
Canyon."

Then began long days of dreary driving through the snow, with a noon
halt at Yancey's and then three days later the return, in the cold, the
biting cold. It was freezing work, but coldest of all was the chill
thought at his heart that February 1st would see him homeless. Small bands of Mountain Sheep he saw at times on the slope of Evarts,
and a few Blacktail, and later, when the winter deepened, huge bull Elk
were seen along the trail. Sometimes they moved not more than a few
paces to let him pass. These were everyday things to him, but in the
second week
of his winter work he got a sudden thrill. He was coming down the long
hill back of Yancey's when what should he see there, sitting on its
tail, shiny black with yellow eyes like a huge black cat unusually long
and sharp in the nose, but a wonderful Silver Fox! Possibly the same as
the one he saw at the Canyon, for that one he knew had disappeared and
there were not likely to be two in the Park. Yes, it might be the same,
and Josh's bosom surged with mingled feelings. Why did he not carry that
little gun? Why did he not realize? Were the thoughts that came–$500! A
noble chance! broad daylight only twenty-five yards! and gone! The Fox was still there when Josh drove on. On the next trip he
brought the little rifle. He had sawed off the stock so he could hide it
easily in his overcoat if need be. No man knew that he carried arms, but
the Foxes seemed to know. The Red ones kept afar and the Black one came
no more. Day after day he drove and hoped but the Black Fox has cunning
measured to his value. He came not, or if he came, was wisely hidden,
and so the month went by, till late in the cold Moon of Snow he heard
old Yancey, say "There's a Silver Fox bin a-hanging around the stable
this last week. Leastwise Dave says he seen him." There
were soldiers sitting around that stove, game guardians of the Park, and
still more dangerous, a scout, the soldiers' guide, a mountaineer. Josh
turned not an inch, he made no sound in response, but his heart gave a
jump. Half an hour later he went out to bed his horses for the night,
and peering around the stable he saw a couple of shadowy forms that
silently shifted until swallowed by the gloom. Then the soldiers came to bed their horses, and Josh went back to the
stove. His big driving coat hung with the little sawed-off rifle in the
long pocket. He waited till the soldiers one by one went up the ladder
to the general bunk-room. He rose again, got the lantern, lighted it,
carried it out behind the lonely stable. The horses were grinding their
hay, the stars were faintly lighting the snow. There was no one about as
he hung the lantern under the eaves outside so that it could be seen
from the open valley, but not from the house. A faint Yap-yah, of a Fox was heard on the piney hillside,
as he lay down on the hay in the loft, but there were no signs of life
on the snow. He had come to wait all night if need be, and waited. The
lantern might allure, it might scare, but it was needed in this gloom,
and it
tinged the snow with faint yellow light below him. An hour went by, then
a big-tailed form came near and made a little bark at the lantern. It
looked very dark, but it had a paler patch on the throat. This waiting
was freezing work; Josh's teeth were chattering in spite of his
overcoat. Another gray form came, then a much larger black one shaped
itself on the white. It dashed at the first, which fled, and the second
one followed but a little, and then sat down on the snow, gazing at that
bright light. When you are sure, you are so sure–Josh knew him
now, he was facing the Silver Fox. But the light was dim. Josh's hand
trembled as he bared it to lay the back on his lips and suck so as to
make a mousey squeak. The effect on the Fox was instant. He glided
forward intent as a hunting cat. Again he stood in, oh! such a wonderful
pose, still as a statue, frozen like a hiding partridge, unbudging as a
lone kid Antelope in May. And Josh raised–yes, he had come for that–he
raised that fatal gun. The lantern blazed in the Fox's face at twenty
yards; the light was flung back doubled by its shining eyes; it looked
perfectly clear. Josh lined the gun, but, strange to tell, the sights so
plain were lost at once, and the gun was shaking like a sorghum stalk
while the Gopher gnaws its root. He laid the weapon down with a groan, cursed his own poor trembling
hand, and in an instant the wonder Fox was gone. Poor Josh! He wasn't bad-tongued, but now he used all the evil words
he had ever heard, and he was Western bred. Then he reacted on himself. "The Fox might come back!" Suddenly he remembered something. He got out
a common sulphur match. He wet it on his lips and rubbed it on the
muzzle sight: Then on each side of the notch on the breech sight. He
lined it for a tree. Yes!