Who cares? And afar in Livingston what did the fur dealer care? It was a great
prize–or the banker? he got his five hundred, and mother found it easy
to accept the Indians' creed: "Who owns wild beasts? The man who kills
them."

"I did not know how it would come," she said; "I only knew it would
come, for I prayed and believed."

We know that it came when it meant the most. The house was saved. It
was the turn in their fortune's tide, and the crucial moment of the
change was when those three bright sulphur spots were lined with the
living lamps in the head of the Silver Fox. Yes! Josh was a poacher. Just once. THE
VILLAIN IN VELVET–THE MARTEN

This beautiful animal, the Sable of America, with its rich brown fur
and its golden throat, comes naturally after the Silver Fox, for such is
the relative value of their respective coats. The Fox is a small wild dog; the Marten is a large tree Weasel. It is
a creature of amazing agility, so much so that it commonly runs down the
Red-squirrel among the tree tops. Its food consists mainly of mice and Squirrels, but it kills Rabbits
and Grouse when it can find them, and sometimes even feasts on game of a
far more noble size. Tom Newcomb, my old guide, has given me an interesting note on the
Marten, made while he was acting as hunting guide in the Shoshoni
Mountains. In October, 1911, he was out with Baron D' Epsen and his party,
hunting on Miller Creek east of Yellowstone Park. They shot at a Deer. It ran off as though unharmed, but turned to run down hill, and soon the
snow showed that it was spurting blood on both sides. They followed for
three or four hundred yards, and then the Deer track was joined by the
tracks of five Marten. In a few minutes they found the Deer down and the
five Marten, a family probably, darting about in the near trees, making
their peculiar soft purr as though in anticipation of the feast, which
was delayed only by the coming of the hunters. These attempts to share
with the killers of big game are often seen. THE
INDUSTRIOUS BEAVER

In some respects the Beaver is the most notable animal in the West. It was the search for Beaver skins that led adventurers to explore the
Rocky
Mountains, and to open up the whole northwest of the United States and
Canada. It is the Beaver to-day that is the chief incentive to poachers
in the Park, but above all the Beaver is the animal that most manifests
its intelligence by its works, forestalls man in much of his best
construction, and amazes us by the well-considered labour of its
hands. VII. Beaver: (a) Pond and house; (b) Stumps of tree cut and removed by
Beaver, near Yancey's, 1897 Photos by E. T. Seton

VII. Beaver: (a) Pond and
house; (b) Stumps of tree cut and removed by Beaver, near Yancey's,
1897
Photos by E. T. Seton

VIII. Mule-deer Photo by
E. T. Seton

VIII. Mule-deer
Photo by E.