T. Seton

There was a time when the Beaver's works and wisdom were so new and
astounding that super-human intelligence was ascribed to this fur-clad
engineer. Then the scoffers came and reduced him to the low level of his
near kin, and explained the accounts of his works as mere fairy tales. Now we have got back to the middle of the road. We find him a creature
of intelligence far above that of his near kinsmen, and endowed with
some extraordinary instincts that guide him in making dams, houses,
etc., that are unparalleled in the animal world. Here are the principal
deliberate constructions of the Beaver: First the lodge. The Beaver was
the original inventor of reinforced concrete. He has used it for a
million years, in the form of mud mixed with sticks and stones, for
building his lodge and dam. The lodge is the home of the family; that
is, it shelters usually one old male, one old female and sundry
offspring. It is commonly
fifteen to twenty feet across outside, and three to five feet high. Within is a chamber about two feet high and six feet across, well above
water and provided with a ventilator through the roof, also two entering
passages under water, one winding for ordinary traffic, and one straight
for carrying in wood, whose bark is a staple food. This house is kept
perfectly tidy, and when the branch is stripped of all eatable parts, it
is taken out and worked into the dam, which is a crooked bank of mud and
sticks across the running stream. It holds the water so as to moat the
Beaver Castle. But the canal is one of this animal's most interesting undertakings. It is strictly a freight canal for bringing in food-logs, and is dug out
across level ground toward the standing timber. Canals are commonly three or four hundred feet long, about three feet
wide and two feet deep. There was a small but good example at Yancey's
in 1897; it was only seventy feet long. The longest I ever saw was in
the Adirondacks, N. Y.; it was six hundred and fifty-four feet in length
following the curves, two or three feet wide and about two feet
deep. Three other Beaver structures should be noticed. One, the dock or
plunge hole, which is a deep place by a sharply raised bank, both made
with careful
manual labour. Next, the sunning place, generally an ant-hill on which
the Beaver lies to enjoy a sun-bath, while the ants pick the creepers
out of his fur. Third, the mud-pie. This is a little patty of mud mixed
with a squeeze of the castor or body-scent glands. It answers the
purpose of a register, letting all who call know that so and so has
recently been here. The chief food of the Beaver, at least its favourite food, is aspen,
also called quaking asp or poplar; where there are no poplars there are
no Beavers. THE
DAM

Usually the Beavers start a dam on some stream, right opposite a good
grove of poplars. When these are all cut down and the bark used for
food, the Beaver makes a second dam on the same stream, always with a
view to having deep water for safety, close by poplars for food. In this
way I found the Beavers at Yancey's in 1897 had constructed thirteen
dams in succession. But when I examined the ground again in 1912, the
dams were broken, the ponds all dry. Why?