The answer is very simple. The
Beavers had used up all the food. Instead of the little aspen groves
there were now nothing but stumps, and the Beavers had moved
elsewhere. Beaver using his Tail as a
Trowel

Beaver using his Tail as a Trowel

Similarly in 1897 the largest Beaver pond in the Park was at Obsidian
Cliff. I should say the dam there was over four hundred yards long. But
now it is broken and the pond is drained. And the reason as before–the
Beavers used all the food and moved on. Of course the dam is soon broken
when the hardworking ones are not there in their eternal vigilance to
keep it tight. There are many good Beaver ponds near Yancey's now and probably made
by the same colonies of Beavers as those I studied there. Last September I found a fine lots of dams and dammers on the
southeast side of Yellowstone Lake where you may go on a camera hunt
with certainty of getting Beaver pictures. Yes, in broad daylight. Let me correct here some popular errors about the Beaver:

It does not use its tail as a trowel. It does not use big logs in building a dam. It does not and cannot drive stakes. It cannot throw a tree in any given way. It finishes the lodge outside with sticks, not mud. THE OTTER
AND HIS SLIDE

Every one of us that ever was a small boy and rejoiced in
belly-bumping down some icy hill, on a sled
of glorious red, should have a brotherly sympathy for the Otter. While in a large sense this beautiful animal belongs to the Weasel
family, it has so far progressed that it is one of the merriest,
best-natured, unsanguinary creatures that ever caught their prey alive. This may be largely owing to the fact that it has taken entirely to a
fish diet; for without any certain knowledge of the reason, we observe
that fisherfolk are gentler than hunterfolk, and the Otter among his
Weasel kin affords a good illustration of this. We find the animals going through much the same stages as we do. First, the struggle for food, then for mates, and later, when they have
no cause to worry about either, they seek for entertainment. Quite a
number of our animals have invented amusements. Usually these are mere
games of tag, catch, or tussle, but some have gone farther and have a
regular institution, with a set place to meet, and apparatus provided. This is the highest form of all, and one of the best illustrations of it
is found in the jovial Otter. Coasting is an established game with this
animal; and probably every individual of the species frequents some
Otter slide. This is any convenient steep hill or bank, sloping down
into deep
water, prepared by much use, and worn into a smooth shoot that becomes
especially serviceable when snow or ice are there to act as lightning
lubricants. And here the Otters will meet, old and young, male and
female, without any thought but the joy of fun together, and shoot down
one after the other, swiftly, and swifter still, as the hill grows
smooth with use, and plump into the water and out again; and chase each
other with little animal gasps of glee, each striving to make the shoot
more often and more quickly than the others. And all of this charming
scene, this group and their merry game, is unquestionably for the simple
social joy of being together in an exercise which gives to them the
delicious, exhilarating sensation of speeding through space without
either violence or effort. In fact, for the very same reason that you
and I went coasting when we were boys. Do not fail to get one of the guides to show you the Otter slides as
you travel about the lake. Some of them are good and some are poor. The
very best are seen after the snow has come, but still you can see them
with your own eyes, and if you are very lucky and very patient you may
be rewarded by the sight of these merry creatures indulging in a game
which closely parallels so many of our own. IV

Horns and Hoofs
and Legs of Speed

IV

Horns and Hoofs and Legs of Speed

THE
BOUNDING BLACKTAIL

When Lewis and Clark reached the Big Sioux River in Dakota, on their
famous journey up the Missouri, one hundred and ten years ago, they met,
on the very edge and beginning of its range, the Mule Deer, and added
the new species to their collection. It is the characteristic Deer of the rough country from Mexico to
British Columbia, and from California to Manitoba; and is one of the
kinds most easily observed in the Yellowstone Sanctuary. Driving from Gardiner, passing under the Great Tower of Eagle Rock on
which an Osprey has nested year after year as far back as the records
go, and wheeling into the open space in front of the Mammoth Hot Springs
Hotel, one is almost sure to come on a family of Deer wandering across
the lawn, or posing among the shrubbery, with all the artless grace of
the truly wild creature. These are
the representatives of several hundred that collect in fall on and about
this lawn, but are now scattered for the summer season over the
adjoining hills, to come again, no doubt in increased numbers, when the
first deep snow shall warn them to seek their winter range. Like the other animals, these are natives of the region and truly
wild, but so educated by long letting alone that it is easy to approach
within a few yards. The camera hunter should not fail to use this opportunity, not only
because they are wild and beautiful things, but because he can have the
films developed at the hotel over night, and so find out how his camera
is behaving in this new light and surroundings. This is the common Blacktailed Deer of the hill country, called Mule
Deer on account of its huge ears and the shape of its tail. In Canada I
knew it by the name of "Jumping Deer," from its gait, and in the Rockies
it is familiar as the "Bounding Blacktail"–"Bounding" because of the
wonderful way in which it strikes the ground with its legs held stiffly,
then rises in the air with little apparent effort, and lands some ten or
fifteen feet away. As the hunters say, "The Blacktail hits only the high
places in the landscape." On the level it
does not run so well as the Antelope or the Whitetailed Deer, and I
often wondered why it had adopted this laborious mode of speeding, which
seemed so inferior to the normal pace of its kin. But at length I was
eyewitness of an episode that explained the puzzle. THE MOTHER
BLACKTAIL'S RACE FOR LIFE

In the fall of 1897 I was out for a Wolf hunt with the Eaton boys in
the Badlands near Medora, N. D.