Then we saw a touching sight. The
hindmost fawn let out a feeble bleat of distress, and the mother,
heeding, dropped back between. It looked like choosing death, for now
she had not twenty feet of lead. I wanted Eaton to use his gun on the
foremost hound, when something unexpected happened. The flat was
crossed, the Blacktail reached a great high butte, and tapping with
their toes they soared some fifteen feet and tapped again; and tapped
and tapped and soared, and so they went like hawks that are bounding in
the air, and the greyhounds, peerless on the plain, were helpless on the
butte. Yes! rush as they might and did, and bounded and clomb, but
theirs was not the way of the hills. In twenty heartbeats they were left
behind. The Blacktail mother with her twins kept on and soared and
lightly soared till lost to view,
and all were safely hidden in their native hills. XI. Blacktail mother with her twins Photo by E. T. Seton

XI. Blacktail mother with her
twins
Photo by E. T. Seton

THE
BLACKTAIL'S SAFETY IS IN THE HILLS

That day I learned the reason for the bounding flight, so beautiful,
but not the best or swiftest on the plain, yet the one that gives them
dominion and safety on the hills, that makes of them a hill folk that
the dangers of the plain can never reach. So now, O traveller in the Park, if you approach too near the
Blacktail feeding near the great hotel, and so alarm them–for they are
truly wild–they make not for the open run as do the Antelope and the
Hares, not for the thickest bottomland as do the Whitetail and the
Lynxes, but for the steeper hillsides. They know right well where their
safety lies, and on that near and bushy bank, laying aside all alarm,
they group and pose in artless grace that tempts one to a lavish use of
films and gives the chance for that crowning triumph of the art, a wild
animal group, none of which is looking at the camera. One more characteristic incident: In 1897 I was riding, with my wife,
from Yancey's over to Baronett's Bridge, when we came on a young buck
Blacktail. Now, said I, "I am going to show you the most wonderful and
beautiful thing to be
seen in the way of wild life speeding. You shall now see the famous
bounding of the Blacktail." Then I spurred out after the young buck,
knowing that all he needed was a little alarm to make him perform. Did
he take alarm and run? Not at all. He was in the Yellowstone Sanctuary. He knew nothing of guns or dogs; he had lived all his life in safety. He
would trot a few steps out of my way, then turn and gaze at me, but run,
bound, and make for the high land, not a bit of it.