Seton

I. A Prairie-dog town
In N. Y. Zoo. Photo by E. T. Seton

Wild
Animals
At Home

Ernest Thompson
Seton

Ernest Thompson Seton

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES

AT

THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS, GARDEN CITY, N. Y. Foreword

My travels in search of light on the "Animals at Home" have taken me
up and down the Rocky Mountains for nearly thirty years. In the canyons
from British Columbia to Mexico, I have lighted my campfire, far beyond
the bounds of law and order, at times, and yet I have found no place
more rewarding than the Yellowstone Park, the great mountain haven of
wild life. Whenever travellers penetrate into remote regions where human hunters
are unknown, they find the wild things half tame, little afraid of man,
and inclined to stare curiously from a distance of a few paces. But very
soon they learn that man is their most dangerous enemy, and fly from him
as soon as he is seen. It takes a long time and much restraint to win
back their confidence. In the early days of the West, when game abounded and when fifty
yards was the extreme deadly range of the hunter's weapons, wild
creatures were comparatively tame. The advent of the
rifle and of the lawless skin hunter soon turned all big game into
fugitives of excessive shyness and wariness. One glimpse of a man half a
mile off, or a whiff of him on the breeze, was enough to make a Mountain
Ram or a Wolf run for miles, though formerly these creatures would have
gazed serenely from a point but a hundred yards removed. The establishment of the Yellowstone Park in 1872 was the beginning
of a new era of protection for wild life; and, by slow degrees, a
different attitude in these animals toward us. In this Reservation, and
nowhere else at present in the northwest, the wild things are not only
abundant, but they have resumed their traditional Garden-of-Eden
attitude toward man. They come out in the daylight, they are harmless, and they are not
afraid at one's approach. Truly this is ideal, a paradise for the
naturalist and the camera hunter. The region first won fame for its Canyon, its Cataracts and its
Geysers, but I think its animal life has attracted more travellers than
even the landscape beauties. I know it was solely the joy of being among
the animals that led me to spend all one summer and part of another
season in the Wonderland of the West. My adventures in making these studies among the fourfoots have been
very small adventures indeed; the thrillers are few and far between. Any
one can go and have the same or better experiences to-day. But I give
them as they happened, and if they furnish no ground for hair-lifting
emotions, they will at least show what I was after and how I went. I have aimed to show something of the little aspects of the
creatures' lives, which are those that the ordinary traveller will see;
I go with him indeed, pointing out my friends as they chance to pass,
adding a few comments that should make for a better acquaintance on all
sides. And I have offered glimpses, wherever possible, of the wild thing
in its home, embodying in these chapters the substance of many lectures
given under the same title as this book. The cover design is by my wife, Grace Gallatin Seton. She was with me
in most of the experiences narrated and had a larger share in every part
of the work than might be inferred from the mere text. Ernest Thompson Seton.