G. Seton

This band contained only cows engaged in growing their calves. According to Elk etiquette, the bulls are off by themselves at a much
higher elevation, engaged in the equally engrossing occupation of
growing their antlers. Most persons are surprised greatly when first
they learn that the huge antlers of the Elk, as with most deer, are
grown and shed each year. It takes only five months to grow them. They
are perfect in late September for the fighting season, and are shed in
March. The bull Elk now shapes his conduct to his weaponless condition. He becomes as meek as he
was warlike. And so far from battling with all of their own sex that
come near, these big "moollys" gather in friendly stag-parties on a
basis of equal loss, and haunt the upper woods whose pasture is rich
enough to furnish the high power nutriment needed to offset the
exhausting drain of growing such mighty horns in such minimum time. They are more free from flies too in these high places, which is
important, for even the antlers are sensitive while growing. They are
even more sensitive than the rest of the body, besides being less
protected and more temptingly filled with blood. A mosquito would surely
think he had struck it rich if he landed on the hot, palpitating end of
a Wapiti's thin-skinned, blood-gorged antlers. It is quite probable that
some of the queer bumps we see on the finished weapons are due to
mosquito or fly stings suffered in the early period of formation. THE
BUGLING ELK

During the summer the bulls attend strictly to their
self-development, but late August sees them ready to seek once more the
mixed society of their kind. Their horns are fully grown, but are not
quite hardened and are still covered with velvet. By the end of
September these weapons are hard and
cleaned and ready for use, just as a thrilling change sets in in the
body and mind of the bull. He is full of strength and vigour, his coat
is sleek, his neck is swollen, his muscles are tense, his horns are
clean, sharp, and strong, and at their heaviest. A burning ambition to
distinguish himself in war, and win favours from the shy ladies of his
kind, grows in him to a perfect insanity; goaded by desire, boiling with
animal force, and raging with war-lust, he mounts some ridge in the
valley and pours forth his very soul in a wild far-reaching battle-cry. Beginning low and rising in pitch to a veritable scream of piercing
intensity, it falls to a rumbled growl, which broken into shorter growls
dies slowly away. This is the famed bugling of the Elk, and however
grotesque it may seem when heard in a zoo, is admitted by all who know
it in its homeland to be the most inspiring music in nature–because of
what it means. Here is this magnificent creature, big as a horse, strong
as a bull, and fierce as a lion, standing in all the pride and glory of
his primest prime, announcing to all the world: "I am out for a fight! Do any of you want a F-I-G-H-T––!-!-!?" Nor does he usually have long to
wait. From some far mountainside the answer comes:

"Yes, yes, yes! Yes, I Do, Do, Do, Do!"

A few more bugle blasts and the two great giants meet; and when they
do, all the world knows it for a mile around, without it being seen. The
crashing of the antlers as they close, the roars of hate, the squeals of
combat, the cracking of breaking branches as they charge and charge, and
push and strive, and–sometimes the thud of a heavy body going
down. Many a time have I heard them in the distant woods, but mostly at
night. Often have I gone forth warily hoping to see something of the
fight, for we all love to see a fight when not personally in danger; but
luck has been against me. I have been on the battlefield next morning to
see where the combatants had torn up an acre of ground, and trampled
unnumbered saplings, or tossed huge boulders about like pebbles, but the
fight I missed. One day as I came into camp in the Shoshonees, east of the Park, an
old hunter said: "Say, you! you want to see a real old-time Elk fight? You go up on that ridge back of the corral and you'll sure see a hull
bunch of 'em at it; not one pair of bulls, but six of 'em."

I hurried away, but again I was too late; I saw nothing but the
trampled ground, the broken saplings, and the traces of the turmoil; the
battling giants were gone. Back I went and from the hunter's description made the sketch which I
give below. The old man said: "Well, you sure got it this time. That's
exactly like it was. One pair was jest foolin', one was fencing and was
still perlite; but that third pair was a playin' the game for keeps. An'
for givin' the facts, that's away ahead of any photograph I ever
seen."

Once I did come on the fatal battle-ground, but it was some time
after the decision; and there I found the body of the one who did not
win. The antlers are a fair index of the size and vigour of the stag,
and if the fallen one was so big and strong, what like was he who downed
him, pierced him through and left him on the plain. SNAPPING A
CHARGING BULL

At one time in a Californian Park I heard the war-bugle of an Elk. He
bawled aloud in brazen, ringing tones: "Anybody want a F-I-G-H-T
t-t-t-t!!"

I extemporized a horn and answered him according to his mood. "Yes, I do; bring it ALONG!" and he brought it at a trot,
squealing and roaring as he came. When he got within forty yards he left
the cover and approached me, a perfect incarnation of brute ferocity and
hate. His ears were laid back, his muzzle raised, his nose curled up, his
lower teeth exposed, his mane was bristling and in his eyes there blazed
a marvellous fire of changing opalescent green. On he marched, gritting
his teeth and uttering a most unpleasantly wicked squeal. Then suddenly down went his head, and he came crash at me, with all
the power of half a ton of hate. However, I was not so much exposed as
may have been inferred. I was safely up a tree. And there I sat watching
that crazy bull as he prodded the trunk with his horns, and snorted, and
raved around, telling me just what he thought of me, inviting him to a
fight and then getting up a tree. Finally he went off roaring and
gritting his teeth, but turning back to cast on me from time to time the
deadly, opaque green light of his mad, malignant eyes. A friend of mine, John Fossum, once a soldier attached to Fort
Yellowstone, had a similar adventure on a more heroic scale. While out
on a camera hunt in early winter he descried afar a large bull Elk lying
asleep in an open valley. At once Fossum made a plan. He saw that he
could crawl up to the bull, snap him where he lay, then later secure a
second picture as the creature ran for the timber. The first part of
the
programme was carried out admirably. Fossum got within fifty feet and
still the Elk lay sleeping. Then the camera was opened out. But alas! that little pesky "click," that does so much mischief, awoke
the bull, who at once sprang to his feet and ran–not for the woods–but
for the man. Fossum with the most amazing nerve stood there
quietly focussing his camera, till the bull was within ten feet, then
pressed the button, threw the camera into the soft snow and ran for his
life with the bull at his coat-tails. It would have been a short run but
for the fact that they reached a deep snowdrift that would carry the
man, and would not carry the Elk. Here Fossum escaped, while the bull
snorted around, telling just what he meant to do to the man when he
caught him; but he was not to be caught, and at last the bull went off
grumbling and squealing. The hunter came back, recovered his camera, and when the plate was
developed it bore the picture No. xiv, b.