XIV. Elk on the Yellowstone in winter: (a) Caught in eight feet of snow;
Photo by F. Jay Haynes (b) Bull Elk charging Photo by John Fossum

XIV. Elk on the Yellowstone
in winter: (a) Caught in eight feet of snow;

Photo by F. Jay Haynes

Photo by John Fossum

It shows plainly the fighting light in the bull's eye, the back laid
ears, the twisting of the nose, and the rate at which he is coming is
evidenced in the stamping feet and the wind-blown whiskers, and yet in
spite of the peril of the moment, and the fact that this was a hand
camera, there is no sign
of shake on landscape or on Elk, and the picture is actually
over-exposed. THE HOODOO
COW

One of the best summer ranges for Elk is near the southeast corner of
the Yellowstone Lake, and here it was my luck to have the curious
experience that I call the "Story of a Hoodoo Elk."

In the September of 1912, when out with Tom Newcomb of Gardiner, I
had this curious adventure, that I shall not try to explain. We had
crossed the Yellowstone Lake in a motor boat and were camped on the
extreme southeast Finger, at a point twenty-five miles as the crow
flies, and over fifty as the trail goes, from any human dwelling. We
were in the least travelled and most primitive part of the Park. The
animals here are absolutely in the wild condition and there was no one
in the region but ourselves. On Friday, September 6th, we sighted some Elk on the lake shore at
sunrise, but could not get nearer than two hundred yards, at which
distance I took a poor snap. The Elk wheeled and ran out of sight. I set
off on foot with the guide about 8:30. We startled one or two Elk, but
they were very wild, and I got no chance to photograph. About 10:30, when several miles farther in the wilderness, we sighted
a cow Elk standing in a meadow with a Coyote sneaking around about one
hundred yards away. "That's my Elk," I said, and we swung under cover. By keeping in a little pine woods, I got within one hundred yards,
taking picture No. 1, Plate XV. As she did not move, I said to Tom: "You
stay here while I creep out to that sage brush and I'll get a picture of
her at fifty yards." By crawling on my hands I was able to do this and
got picture No. 2. Now I noticed a bank of tall grass some thirty yards
from the cow, and as she was still quiet, I crawled to that and got
picture No. 3. She did not move and I was near enough to see that she
was dozing in a sun-bath. So I stood up and beckoned to Tom to come out
of the woods at once. He came on nearly speechless with amazement. "What
is the meaning of this?" he whispered. XV. The first shots at the Hoodoo Cow Photos by E. T. Seton

XV. The first shots at the
Hoodoo Cow
Photos by E.