Seton

THE
SIREN CALL

"You put that on before you catch one Moose, Moose never come," they
said. Still I put them on, and near sundown set off in a canoe, with one
guide as paddler, and my partner in charge of the only gun. In half an
hour we reached a lonely lake surrounded by swamps, and woods of mixed
timber. The sunset red was purpling all the horizon belt of pines, and
the peace of the still hour was on lake and swamp. With some little
sense of profanity I raised the hoodoo horn to my mouth, gave one or two
high-pitched, impatient grunts, then poured forth the softly rising,
long-drawn love-call of a cow Moose, all alone, and "Oh, so
lonesome."

The guide nodded in approval, "That's all right," then I took out my
watch and waited for fifteen minutes. For, strange to tell, it seems
to repel
the bull Moose and alarm him if the cow seems over-eager. There is a
certain etiquette to be observed; it is easy to spoil all by trying to
go too fast. And it does not do to guess at the time; when one is
waiting so hard, the minute is like twenty. So when fifteen minutes really had gone, I raised the magic horn
again, emitted a few hankering whines, then broke into a louder, farther
reaching call that thrilled up echoes from across the lake and seemed to
fill the woods for miles around with its mellifluous pleading. Again I waited and gave a third call just as the sun was gone. Then
we strained our eyes and watched at every line of woods, and still were
watching when the sound of a falling tree was heard far off on a
hillside. Then there was a sort of after-clap as though the tree had lodged the
first time, and hanging half a minute, had completed its fall with
breaking of many branches, and a muffled crash. We gazed hard that way,
and the guide, a very young one, whispered, "Bear!"

There was silence, then a stick broke nearer, and a deep, slow snort
was heard; it might have been the "woof" of a Bear, but I was in doubt. Then without any more noises, a white array of shining
antler tips appeared above the near willows, and swiftly, silently,
there glided into view a huge bull Moose. "How solid and beefy he looks!" was my first thought. He "woofed"
again, and the guide, with an eye always to the head, whispered to my
partner: "Take him! he's a stunner."

Striding on he came, with wonderful directness, seeing I had not
called for twenty minutes, and that when he was a mile or more away. As he approached within forty yards, the guide whispered, "Now is
your chance. You'll never get a better one." My partner whispered,
"Steady the canoe." I drove my paddle point into the sandy bottom, the
guide did the same at the other end, and she arose standing in the canoe
and aimed. Then came the wicked "crack" of the rifle, the "pat" of the
bullet, the snort and whirl of the great, gray, looming brute, and a
second shot as he reached the willows, only to go down with a crash, and
sob his life out on the ground behind the leafy screen. It all seemed so natural, so exactly according to the correct rules
of sporting books and tales, and yet so unlovely. There were tears in the eyes of the fair killer, and heart wrenches
were hers, as the great sobs grew
less and ceased; and a different sob was heard at my elbow, as we stood
beside the biggest Moose that had been killed there in years. It was
triumph I suppose; it is a proud thing to act a lie so cleverly; the
Florentine assassins often decoyed and trapped a brave man, by crying
like a woman. But I have never called a Moose since, and that rifle has
hung unused in its rack from that to the present day. THE
BIGGEST OF OUR GAME–THE BUFFALO

"Yes, that's a buffalo-bird," said the old Indian, pointing to some
black birds, with gray mates, that flitted or ran across the plain. "Pretty bad luck when the Buffalo gone. Them little birds make their
nest in a Buffalo's wool, right on his head, and when the Buffalo all
gone, seem like the buffalo-bird die too; 'cause what's the use, no got
any nest."

This is a fragment that reached me long ago in Montana. It seemed
like a lusty myth, whose succulent and searching roots were in a
bottomless bog, with little chance of sound foundation. But the tale
bore the searchlight better than I thought. For it seems that the
buffalo-bird followed the Buffalo everywhere, and was fond of nesting,
not in the shaggy mane between the horns of the ruling
monarch, but on any huge head it might find after the bull had fallen,
and the skull, with mane attached, lay discarded on the plain. While
always, even when nesting on the ground, the wool of the Buffalo was
probably used as lining of the black-bird's nest. I know of one case
where an attendant bird that was too crippled to fly when autumn came,
wintered in the mane of a large Buffalo bull. It gathered seed by day,
when the bull pawed up the snow, and roosted at night between the mighty
horns, snuggling in the wool, with its toes held warm against the
monster's blood-hot neck. In most of the Northwest the birds have found a poor substitute for
the Buffalo in the range-cattle, but oh! how they must miss the
wool. XVIII. Moose–the
Widow Drawing by E. T. Seton

XVIII. Moose–the Widow
Drawing by E. T.