1500. In 1895 they were down to
800; probably this was the low-ebb year. Since then they have increased
under judicious protection, and now reach about 3,000. In the June of 1897, as I stood on a hill near Baronett's Bridge,
overlooking the Yellowstone just beyond Yancey's, with an old timer,
Dave Roberts, he said: "Twenty years ago, when I first saw this valley,
it was black-speckled with Buffalo, and every valley in the Park was the
same." Now the only sign of the species was a couple of old skulls
crumbling in the grass. In 1900 the remnant in the Park had fallen to thirty, and their
extinction seemed certain. But the matter was taken up energetically by
the officers in charge. Protection, formerly a legal fiction, was made
an accomplished fact. The Buffalo have increased ever since, and to-day
number 200, with the possibility of some stragglers. We need not dwell on the story of the extinction of the great herds. That is familiar to all,[B] but it is well to remind the reader
that it was inevitable. The land was, or would be, needed for human
settlement, with which the Buffalo herds were incompatible; only we
brought it on forty or fifty years before it was necessary. "Could we
not save the Buffalo as range-cattle?" is the question that most ask. The answer is: It has been tried a hundred times and all attempts have
been eventually
frustrated by the creature's temper. Buffalo, male or female, are always
more or less dangerous; they cannot be tamed or trusted. They are always
subject to stampede, and once started, nothing, not even sure
destruction, stops them; so in spite of their suitability to the
climate, their hardihood, their delicious meat, and their valuable
robes, the attempts at domesticating the Buffalo have not yet been made
a success. A small herd of a dozen or so is kept in a fenced range near the
Mammoth Hot Springs, where the traveller should not fail to try for
pictures, and with them he will see the cowbirds, that in some regions
replace the true buffalo-birds. Perched on their backs or heads or
running around them on the ground are these cattle birds as of yore,
like boats around a man-o'-war, or sea-gulls around a whale; living
their lives, snapping up the tormenting flies, and getting in return
complete protection from every creature big enough to seem a menace in
the eyes of the old time King of the Plains. THE DOOMED
ANTELOPE AND HIS HELIOGRAPH

The Antelope, or Pronghorn, is one of the most peculiar animals in
the world. It is the only known ruminant that has hollow horns on a
bony core
as with cattle, and also has them branched and shed each year as in the
Deer. It is a creature of strangely mixed characteristics, for it has the
feet of a Giraffe, the glands of a goat, the coat of a Deer, the horns
of an ox and Deer combined, the eyes of a Gazelle, the build of an
Antelope, and–the speed of the wind. It is the swiftest four-footed
creature native to the plains, and so far as known there is nothing but
a blooded race horse that can outrun it on a mile. But the peculiarity that is most likely to catch the eye of the
traveller is the white disc on its rear. The Heliograph

The Heliograph

The first day I was in the Yellowstone I was riding along the upland
beyond Blacktail Creek with T. E.