T. Seton

This action is momentary or very brief; the spread disc goes down
again in a few seconds. The flash is usually a signal of danger,
although it answers equally well for a recognition mark. In 1897 the Antelope in the Park were estimated at 1,500. Now they
have dwindled to about one third of that, and, in spite of good
protection, continue to go down. They do not flourish when confined even
in a large area, and we have reason to fear that one of the obscure
inexorable laws of nature is working now to shelve the Antelope with the
creatures that have passed away. A small band is yet to be seen
wintering on the prairie near Gardiner. THE
RESCUED BIGHORN

At one time the Bighorn abounded along all the rivers where there was
rough land as far east as the western edge of the Dakotas, westerly to
the Cascades, and in the mountains from Mexico and Southern California
to Alaska. In one form or another the Mountain Sheep covered this large region,
and it is safe to say that in the United States alone their numbers were
millions. But the dreadful age of the repeating rifle
and lawless skin-hunter came on, till the end of the last century saw
the Bighorn in the United States reduced to a few hundreds; they were
well along the sunset trail. But the New York Zoölogical Society, the Camp Fire Club, and other
societies of naturalists and sportsmen, bestirred themselves mightily. They aroused all thinking men to the threatening danger of extinction;
good laws were passed and then enforced. The danger having been
realized, the calamity was averted, and now the Sheep are on the
increase in many parts of the West. During the epoch of remorseless destruction the few survivors were
the wildest of wild things; they would not permit the approach of a man
within a mile. But our new way of looking at the Bighorn has taught them
a new way of looking at us, as every traveller in Colorado or the
protected parts of Wyoming will testify. In 1897 I spent several months rambling on the upper ranges of the
Yellowstone Park, and I saw not a single Sheep, although it was
estimated that there were nearly a hundred of the scared fugitives
hiding and flying among the rocks. In 1912 it was believed that in spite of poachers, Cougars, snow
slides, and scab contracted from domestic sheep, the Bighorn in the
Yellowstone Park had
increased to considerably over two hundred, and the traveller can find
them with fair certainty if he will devote a few days to the quest
around Mt. Evarts, Washburn, or the well-known ranges. In September, 1912, I left Gardiner with Tom Newcomb's outfit. I was
riding at the end of the procession watching in all directions, when far
up on the slide rock I caught sight of a Sheep. A brief climb brought me
within plain though not near view, to learn that there were half a dozen
at least, and I took a few shots with my camera. I think there were many
more hidden in the tall sage behind, but I avoided alarming them, so did
not find out. There were neither rams nor lambs with this herd of ewes. The rams
keep their own company all summer and live, doubtless, far higher in the
mountains. On Mt. Washburn a week later I had the luck to find a dozen ewes with
their lambs; but the sky was dark with leaden clouds and the light so
poor that I got no good results. In winter, as I learn from Colonel Brett, the Sheep are found in
small bands between the Mammoth Hot Springs and Gardiner, for there is
good feed there, and far less snow than in the upper ranges. I have just
heard that this winter four
great rams are seen there every day with about forty other Sheep; and
they are so tame that one can get pictures within ten feet if desired. Alas!