It has a wonderful natural ability
to take the offensive; and no man ever yet came to grips with a Skunk
without being sadly sorry for it afterward. Nevertheless, in spite of all this, and the fact that several other
countries have prior claims on the Eagle, I could not secure, for my
view, sufficient popular support to change the national emblem. From Atlantic to Pacific and from Mexico far north into the wilds of
Canada the Skunk is found,
varying with climate in size and colour indeed, but everywhere the same
in character and in mode of defense. It abounds in the broken country that lies between forest and
prairie, but seems to avoid the thicker woods as well as the higher
peaks. In Yellowstone Park it is not common, but is found occasionally about
Mammoth Hot Springs and Yancey's, at which latter place I had much
pleasant acquaintance with its kind. HIS
SMELL-GUN

Every one knows that the animal can make a horrible smell in
defending itself, but most persons do not realize what the smell is, or
how it is made. First of all, and this should be in capitals, it has
nothing at all to do with the kidneys or with the sex organs. It is
simply a highly specialized musk secreted by a gland, or rather, a pair
of them, located under the tail. It is used for defense when the Skunk
is in peril of his life, or thinks he is. But a Skunk may pass his whole
life without using it. He can throw it to a distance of seven to ten feet according to his
power or the wind. If it reaches the eyes of his assailant it blinds him
temporarily. If it enters his mouth it sets up a frightful nausea. If
the vapour gets into his lungs, it chokes as well as
nauseates. There are cases on record of men and dogs being permanently
blinded by this awful spray. And there is one case of a boy being killed
by it. Most Americans know somewhat of its terrors, but few of them realize
the harmlessness of the Skunk when let alone. In remote places I find
men who still think that this creature goes about shooting as wildly and
wantonly as any drunken cowboy. THE
CRUELTY OF STEEL TRAPS

A few days ago while walking with a friend in the woods we came on a
Skunk. My companion shouted to the dog and captured him to save him from
a possible disaster, then called to me to keep back and let the Skunk
run away. But the fearless one in sable and ermine did not run, and I
did not keep back, but I walked up very gently. The Skunk stood his
ground and raised his tail high over his back, the sign of fight. I
talked to him, still drawing nearer; then, when only ten feet away, was
surprised to see that one of his feet was in a trap and terribly
mangled. I stooped down, saying many pleasant things about my friendliness,
etc. The Skunk's tail slowly lowered and I came closer up. Still, I
did not
care to handle the wild and tormented thing on such short acquaintance,
so I got a small barrel and quietly placed it over him, then removed the
trap and brought him home, where he is now living in peace and
comfort. I mention this to show how gentle and judicious a creature the Skunk
is when gently and judiciously approached. It is a sad commentary on our
modes of dealing with wild life when I add that as afterward appeared
this Skunk had been struggling in the tortures of that trap for three
days and three nights. FRIENDLINESS
OF THE SKUNK

These remarks are preliminary to an account of my adventures with a
family of Skunks in the Park. During the summer I spent in the little
shanty still to be seen, opposite Yancey's, I lost no opportunity of
making animal investigations. One of my methods was to sweep the dust on
the trail and about the cabin quite smooth at night so that any creature
passing should leave me his tracks and I should be sure that they were
recent. One morning on going out I found the fresh tracks of a Skunk. Next
night these were seen again, in fact, there were two sets of them. A day
or so later the cook at the nearby log hotel announced that
a couple of Skunks came every evening to feed at the garbage bucket
outside the kitchen door. That night I was watching for them. About dusk
one came, walking along sedately with his tail at half mast. The house
dog and the house cat both were at the door as the Skunk arrived. They
glanced at the newcomer; then the cat discreetly went indoors and the
dog rumbled in his chest, but discreetly he walked away, very stiffly,
and looked at the distant landscape, with his hair on his back still
bristling. The Skunk waddled up to the garbage pail, climbed in, though
I was but ten feet away, and began his evening meal. Another came later. Their tails were spread and at each sharp noise
rose a little higher, but no one offered them harm, and they went their
way when they were filled. After this it was a regular thing to go out and see the Skunks feed
when evening came. PHOTOGRAPHING
SKUNKS AT SHORT RANGE

I was anxious to get a picture or two, but was prevented by the poor
light; in fact, it was but half light, and in those days we had no
brilliant flash powders. So there was but one thing to do, that was trap
my intended sitters. Next night I was ready for them with an ordinary box
trap, and even before the appointed time we saw a fine study in black
and white come marching around the cow stable with banner-tail aloft,
and across the grass toward the kitchen. The box trap was all ready and
we–two women including my wife, and half a dozen men of the mountaineer
type–were watching. The cat and the dog moved sullenly aside. The Skunk,
with the calm confidence of one accustomed to respect, sniffed his way
to the box trap with its tempting odorous bait. A Mink or a Marten, not
to say a Fox, would have investigated a little before entering. The
Skunk indulged in no such waste of time. What had he to fear–he the
little lord of all things with the power of smell? He went in like one
going home, seized the bait, and down went the door. The uninitiated
onlookers expected an explosion from the Skunk, but I knew quite well he
never wasted a shot, and did not hesitate to approach and make all safe. Now I wanted to move the box with its captive to my photographic studio,
but could not carry it alone, so I asked the mountaineers to come and
help. Had I asked them to join me in killing a man, shooting up the
town, or otherwise taking their lives in their hands, I would doubtless
have had half a dozen cheerful volunteers; but to carry a box in which
was a wild Skunk–"not for a hundred dollars," and the warriors melted
into the background. Then I said to my wife, "Haven't you got nerve enough to
help with this box? I'll guarantee that nothing will happen." So she
came and we took the box to my prepared enclosure, where next day I
photographed him to my heart's content. More than once as I worked
around at a distance of six or eight feet, the Skunk's tail flew up, but
I kept perfectly still then; talked softly, apologizing and explaining:
"Now don't shoot at me. We are to be good friends.