I wouldn't hurt you
for anything. Now do drop that fighting flag, if you please, and be
good."

Gradually the tail went down and the captive looked at me in mere
curiosity as I got my pictures. I let him go by simply removing the wire netting of the fence,
whereupon he waddled off under the cabin that I called "home."

WE SHARE
THE SHANTY WITH THE SKUNKS

The next night as I lay in my bunk I heard a sniffing and scratching
on the cabin floor. On looking over the edge of the bed I came face to
face with my friend the Skunk. Our noses were but a foot apart and just
behind him was another; I suppose his mate. I said: "Hello! Here
you are
again. I'm glad to see you. Who's your friend?" He did not tell me,
neither did he seem offended. I suppose it was his mate. That was the
beginning of his residence under the floor of my cabin. My wife and I
got very well acquainted with him and his wife before the summer was
over. For though we had the cabin by day, the Skunks had it by night. We
always left them some scraps, and regularly at dusk they came up to get
them. They cleaned up our garbage, so helped to rid us of flies and
mice. We were careful to avoid hurting or scaring our nightly visitors,
so the summer passed without offense. We formed only the kindest
feelings toward each other, and we left them in possession of the cabin,
where, so far as I know, they are living yet, if you wish to call. THE SKUNK
AND THE UNWISE BOBCAT

As already noted, I swept the dust smooth around our shanty each
night to make a sort of visitors' book. Then each morning I could go out
and by study of the tracks get an exact idea of who had called. Of
course there were many blank nights; on others the happenings were
trifling, but some were full of interest. In this way I learned of the
Coyote's visits to the garbage pail and of the Skunk establishment under
the
house, and other interesting facts as in the diagram. I have always used
this method of study in my mountain trips, and recall a most interesting
record that rewarded my patience some twenty years ago when I lived in
New Mexico. XXII. Track record of Bobcat's adventure with a Skunk

XXII. Track record of
Bobcat's adventure with a Skunk

During the night I had been aroused by a frightful smell of Skunk,
followed by strange muffled sounds that died away. So forth I went at
sunrise and found the odour of Skunk no dream but a stern reality. Then
a consultation of my dust album revealed an inscription which after a
little condensing and clearing up appeared much as in Plate XXII. At A a
Skunk had come on the scene, at B he was wandering about when a hungry
Wild Cat or Bobcat Lynx appeared, C. Noting the promise of something to
kill for food, he came on at D. The Skunk observing the intruder said,
"You better let me alone." And not wishing to make trouble moved off
toward E. But the Bobcat, evidently young and inexperienced, gave chase. At F the Skunk wheeled about, remarking, "Well, if you will have it,
here goes!" At G the Lynx was hit. The tremendous bound from G to H
shows the effect. At J he bumped into a stone, showing probably that he
was blinded, after which he went bouncing and bounding away. The Skunk
merely said, "I told
you so!" then calmly resumed the even tenor of his way. At K he found
the remains of a chicken, on which he feasted, then went quietly home to
bed. This is my reading of the tracks in the dust. The evidence was so
clear that I have sketched here from imagination the succession of
events which it seemed to narrate. XXIII. The six chapters of the Bobcat's adventure. (a) The Bobcat appears on
the scene; (b) "Ha," he says, "A meal for me." "Beware," says the Skunk;
(c) "No! Then take that," says the Skunk; (d) "Ow-w-ow-w"; (e) "I told
you so"; (f) "How pleasant is a peaceful meal" Sketches by E. T.