Seton

XXIII. The six chapters of
the Bobcat's adventure. (a) The Bobcat appears on the scene; (b) "Ha,"
he says, "A meal for me." "Beware," says the Skunk; (c) "No! Then take
that," says the Skunk; (d) "Ow-w-ow-w"; (e) "I told you so"; (f) "How
pleasant is a peaceful meal"
Sketches by E. T. Seton

MY PET
SKUNKS

It would not be doing justice to the Skunk if I did not add a word
about certain of the kind that I have at home. For many years I have kept at least one pet Skunk. Just now I have
about sixty. I keep them close to the house and would let them run loose
indoors but for the possibility of some fool dog or cat coming around,
and provoking the exemplary little brutes into a perfectly justifiable
endeavour to defend themselves as nature taught them. But for this I
should have no fear. Not only do I handle them myself, but I have
induced many of my wild-eyed visitors to do so as a necessary part of
their education. For few indeed there are in the land to-day that
realize the gentleness and forbearance of this righteous little brother
of ours, who, though armed with a weapon that will put
the biggest and boldest to flight or disastrous defeat, yet refrains
from using it until in absolute peril of his life, and then only after
several warnings. By way of rounding out this statement, I present a picture of my
little daughter playing among the Skunks, and need add only that they
are full-grown specimens in full possession of all their faculties. Plate XXIV. XXIV. My tame Skunks: (a) Mother Skunk and her brood; (b) Ann Seton feeding
her pets Photos by E. T. Seton

XXIV. My tame Skunks: (a)
Mother Skunk and her brood; (b) Ann Seton feeding her pets
Photos by E. T. Seton

VII

Old Silver-grizzle–The Badger

VII

Old Silver-grizzle–The Badger

A brilliant newspaper man once gave vast publicity to the story that
at last a use had been found for the Badger, with his mania for digging
holes in the ground. By kindness and care and the help of an attached
little steam-gauge speedometer plumb compass, that gave accurate aim,
improved perpendicularity, and increased efficiency to the efforts of
the strenuous excavator, he had been able to produce a dirigible Badger
that was certain to displace all other machinery for digging
postholes. Unfortunately I was in a position to disprove this pretty conceit. But I think of it every time I put my foot in a Badger hole. Such lovely
holes, so plentiful, so worse than useless where the Badger has
thoughtlessly located them. If only we could harness and direct such
excavatory energies. This, indeed, is the only quarrel civilized man can pick with the
honest Badger. He will dig holes that endanger horse's legs and
rider's necks. He may destroy Gophers, Ground-squirrels, Prairie-dogs,
insects, and a hundred enemies of the farm; he may help the crops in a
thousand different ways, but he will dig post-holes where they are
not wanted, and this indiscretion has made many enemies for the
kindest and sturdiest of all the squatters on the plains. THE
VALIANT, HARMLESS BADGER

From the Saskatchewan to Mexico he ranges, and from Illinois to
California, wherever there are dry, open plains supplied with
Ground-squirrels and water. Many times, in crossing the rolling plains of Montana, the uplands of
Arizona and New Mexico, or the prairies of Manitoba, I have met with
Mittenusk, as the redmen call him. Like a big white stone perched on
some low mound he seems. But the wind makes cracks in it at places, and
then it moves–giving plain announcement to the world with eyes to see
that this is a Badger sunning himself. He seldom allows a near approach,
even in the Yellowstone, where he is safe, and is pretty sure to drop
down out of sight in
his den long before one gets within camera range. The Badger is such a
subterranean, nocturnal creature at most times that for long his home
life escaped our observation, but at last a few paragraphs, if not a
chapter of it, have been secured, and we find that this shy creature, in
ill odour among cattlemen as noted, is a rare and lovely character when
permitted to unbend in a congenial group. Sturdy, strong and dogged, and
brave to the last ditch, the more we know of the Badger the more we
respect him. Let us pass lightly over the facts that in makeup he is between a
Bear and a Weasel, and that he weighs about twenty pounds, and has a
soft coat of silvery gray and some label marks of black on his head. He feeds chiefly on Ground-squirrels, which he digs out, but does not
scorn birds' eggs, or even fruit and grain at times. Except for an
occasional sun-bath, he spends the day in his den and travels about
mostly by night. He minds his own business, if let alone, but woe be to
the creature of the plains that tries to molest him, for he has the
heart of a bulldog, the claws of a Grizzly, and the jaws of a small
crocodile. I shall never forget my first meeting with Old Silver-grizzle. It was
on the plains of the Souris, in
1882. I saw this broad, low, whitish creature on the prairie, not far
from the trail, and, impelled by the hunter instinct so strong in all
boys, I ran toward him. He dived into a den, but the one he chose proved
to be barely three feet deep, and I succeeded in seizing the Badger's
short thick tail. Gripping it firmly with both hands, I pulled and
pulled, but he was stronger than I. He braced himself against the sides
of the den and defied me. With anything like fair play, he would have
escaped, but I had accomplices, and the details of what followed are not
pleasant reminiscences. But I was very young at the time, and that was
my first Badger. I wanted his skin, and I had not learned to respect his
exemplary life and dauntless spirit. In the summer of 1897 I was staying at Yancey's in the Park. Daily I
saw signs of Badgers about, and one morning while prowling, camera in
hand, I saw old Gray-coat wandering on the prairie, looking for fresh
Ground-squirrel holes. Keeping low, I ran toward him. He soon sensed me,
and to my surprise came rushing toward me, uttering sharp snarls. This
one was behaving differently from any Badger I had seen before, but
evidently he was going to give me a chance for a picture. After that was
taken, doubtless I could save
myself by running. We were within thirty yards of each other and both
coming strong, when "crash" I went into a Badger hole I had not
seen, just as he went "thump" down tail first into a hole he
had not seen. For a moment we both looked very foolish, but he recovered
first, and rushing a few yards nearer, plunged into a deep and wide den
toward which he evidently had been heading from the first. HIS
SOCIABLE BENT

The strongest peculiar trait of the Badger is perhaps his
sociability–sociability being, of course, a very different thing from
gregariousness. Usually there are two Badgers in each den. Nothing
peculiar about that, but there are several cases on record of a Badger,
presumably a bachelor or a widower, sharing his life with some totally
different animal. In some instances that other animal has been a Coyote;
and the friendship really had its foundation in enmity and intended
robbery. This is the probable history of a typical case: The Badger, being a
mighty miner and very able to dig out the Ground-squirrels of the
prairie, was followed about by a Coyote, whose speed and agility kept
him safe from the Badger's jaws,
while he hovered close by, knowing quite well that when the Badger was
digging out the Ground-squirrels at their front door, these rodents were
very apt to bolt by the back door, and thus give the Coyote an excellent
chance for a cheap dinner. So the Coyote acquired the habit of following the hard-working
Badger. At first, no doubt, the latter resented the parasite that dogged
his steps, but becoming used to it "first endured, then pitied, then
embraced", or, to put it more mildly, he got accustomed to the Coyote's
presence, and being of a kindly disposition, forgot his enmity and
thenceforth they contentedly lived their lives together. I do not know
that they inhabited the same den. Yet that would not be impossible,
since similar things are reported of the British Badger and the Fox. More than one observer has seen a Badger and a Coyote travelling
together, sometimes one leading, sometimes the other. Evidently it was a
partnership founded on good-will, however it may have been begun. THE STORY
OF THE KINDLY BADGER

But the most interesting case, and one which I might hesitate to
reproduce but for the witnesses, reached me at Winnipeg. In 1871 there was a family named Service living at Bird's Hill, on
the prairie north of Winnipeg. They had one child, a seven-year-old boy
named Harry. He was a strange child, very small for his age, and shy
without being cowardly. He had an odd habit of following dogs, chickens,
pigs, and birds, imitating their voices and actions, with an exactness
that onlookers sometimes declared to be uncanny. One day he had gone
quietly after a Prairie Chicken that kept moving away from him without
taking flight, clucking when she clucked, and nodding his head or
shaking his "wings" when she did. So he wandered on and on, till the
house was hidden from view behind the trees that fringed the river, and
the child was completely lost. There was nothing remarkable in his being away for several hours, but
a heavy thunderstorm coming up that afternoon called attention to the
fact that the boy was missing, and when the first casual glance did not
discover him it became serious and a careful search was begun. Father and mother, with the near neighbours, scoured the prairie till
dark, and began the next day at dawn, riding in all directions, calling,
and looking for signs. After a day or two the neighbours gave it up,
believing that the child was drowned and carried away by the river. But
the parents
continued their search even long after all hope seemed dead. And there
was no hour of the day when that stricken mother did not send up a
prayer for heavenly help; nor any night when she did not kneel with her
husband and implore the One who loved and blessed the babes of Jerusalem
to guard her little one and bring him back in safety. THE EVIL
ONE

There was one neighbour of the family who joined in the search that
had nevertheless incurred the bitter dislike of little Harry Service. The feeling was partly a mere baby instinct, but pointedly because of
the man's vicious cruelty to the animals, wild or tame, that came within
his power. Only a week before he had set steel traps at a den where he
chanced to find a pair of Badgers in residence. The first night he
captured the father Badger. The cruel jaws of the jag-toothed trap had
seized him by both paws, so he was held helpless. The trap was champed
and wet with blood and froth when Grogan came in the morning. Of what
use are courage and strength when one cannot reach the foe? The Badger
craved only a fair fight, but Grogan stood out of reach and used a club
till the light was gone from the brave eyes and the fighting snarl was
still. The trap was reset in the sand and Grogan went. He carried the dead
Badger to the Service house to show his prize and get help to skin it,
after which he set off for the town and bartered the skin for what evil
indulgence it might command, and thought no more of the trap for three
days. Meanwhile the mother Badger, coming home at dawn, was caught by
one foot. Strain as she might, that deadly grip still held her; all that
night and all the next day she struggled. She had little ones to care
for. Their hungry cries from down the burrow were driving her almost
mad; but the trap was of strong steel, beyond her strength, and at last
the crying of the little ones in the den grew still. On the second day
of her torture the mother, in desperation, chewed off one of her toes
and dragged her bleeding foot from the trap. Down the burrow she went first, but it was too late; her babies were
dead. She buried them where they lay and hastened from that evil
spot. Water was her first need, next food, and then at evening she made for
an old den she had used the fall before. THE BADGER
THAT RESCUED THE BOY

And little Harry, meanwhile, where was he? That sunny afternoon in
June he had wandered away
from the house, and losing sight of the familiar building behind the
long fringe of trees by the river, he had lost his bearings. Then came
the thunder shower which made him seek for shelter. There was nothing
about him but level prairie, and the only shelter he could find was a
Badger hole, none too wide even for his small form. Into this he had
backed and stayed with some comfort during the thunderstorm, which
continued till night. Then in the evening the child heard a sniffing
sound, and a great, gray animal loomed up against the sky, sniffed at
the tracks and at the open door of the den. Next it put its head in, and
Harry saw by the black marks on its face that it was a Badger. He had
seen one just three days before. A neighbour had brought it to his
father's house to skin it. There it stood sniffing, and Harry, gazing
with less fear than most children, noticed that the visitor had five
claws on one foot and four on the other, with recent wounds, proof of
some sad experience in a trap. Doubtless this was the Badger's den, for
she–it proved a mother–came in, but Harry had no mind to surrender. The
Badger snarled and came on, and Harry shrieked, "Get out!" and struck
with his tiny fists, and then, to use his own words, "I scratched the
Badger's face and she scratched
mine." Surely this Badger was in a generous mood, for she did him no
serious harm, and though the rightful owner of the den, she went away
and doubtless slept elsewhere. Night came down. Harry was very thirsty. Close by the door was a pool
of rainwater. He crawled out, slaked his thirst, and backed into the
warm den as far as he could. Then remembering his prayers, he begged God
to "send mamma," and cried himself to sleep. During the night he was
awakened by the Badger coming again, but it went away when the child
scolded it. Next morning Harry went to the pool again and drank. Now he
was so hungry; a few old rose hips hung on the bushes near the den. He
gathered and ate these, but was even hungrier. Then he saw something
moving out on the plain. It might be the Badger, so he backed into the
den, but he watched the moving thing. It was a horseman galloping. As it
came near, Harry saw that it was Grogan, the neighbour for whom he had
such a dislike, so he got down out of sight. Twice that morning men came
riding by, but having once yielded to his shy impulse, he hid again each
time. The Badger came back at noon. In her mouth she held the body of a
Prairie Chicken, pretty well plucked and partly devoured. She came
into the
den sniffing as before. Harry shouted, "Get out! Go away." The Badger
dropped the meat and raised her head. Harry reached and grasped the food
and devoured it with the appetite of one starving. There must have been
another doorway, for later the Badger was behind the child in the den,
and still later when he had fallen asleep she came and slept beside him. He awoke to find the warm furry body filling the space between him and
the wall, and knew now why it was he had slept so comfortably. That evening the Badger brought the egg of a Prairie Chicken and set
it down unbroken before the child. He devoured it eagerly, and again
drank from the drying mud puddle to quench his thirst. During the night
it rained again, and he would have been cold, but the Badger came and
cuddled around him. Once or twice it licked his face. The child could
not know, but the parents discovered later that this was a mother Badger
which had lost her brood and her heart was yearning for something to
love. Now there were two habits that grew on the boy. One was to shun the
men that daily passed by in their search, the other was to look to the
Badger for food and protection, and live the Badger's life. She brought
him food often not at all to
his taste–dead Mice or Ground-squirrels–but several times she brought in
the comb of a bee's nest or eggs of game birds, and once a piece of
bread almost certainly dropped on the trail from some traveller's lunch
bag. His chief trouble was water. The prairie pool was down to mere ooze
and with this he moistened his lips and tongue. Possibly the mother
Badger wondered why he did not accept her motherly offerings. But rain
came often enough to keep him from serious suffering. Their daily life was together now, and with the imitative power
strong in all children and dominant in him, he copied the Badger's
growls, snarls, and purrs. Sometimes they played tag on the prairie, but
both were ready to rush below at the slightest sign of a stranger. Two weeks went by. Galloping men no longer passed each day. Harry and
the Badger had fitted their lives into each other's, and strange as it
may seem, the memory of his home was already blurred and weakened in the
boy. Once or twice during the second week men had passed near by, but
the habit of eluding them was now in full possession of him. FINDING
THE LOST ONE

One morning he wandered a little farther in search of water and was
alarmed by a horseman
appearing. He made for home on all fours–he ran much on all fours
now–and backed into the den. In the prairie grass he was concealed, but
the den was on a bare mound, and the horseman caught a glimpse of a
whitish thing disappearing down the hole. Badgers were familiar to him,
but the peculiar yellow of this and the absence of black marks gave it a
strange appearance. He rode up quietly within twenty yards and
waited. After a few minutes the gray-yellow ball slowly reappeared and
resolved itself into the head of a tow-topped child. The young man
leaped to the ground and rushed forward, but the child retreated far
back into the den, beyond reach of the man, and refused to come out. Nevertheless, there was no doubt that this was the missing Harry
Service. "Harry!