Harry! don't you know me? I'm your Cousin Jack," the
young man said in soothing, coaxing tones. "Harry, won't you come out
and let me take you back to mamma? Come Harry! Look! here are some
cookies!" but all in vain. The child hissed and snarled at him like a
wild thing, and retreated as far as he could till checked by a turn in
the burrow. Now Jack got out his knife and began to dig until the burrow was
large enough for him to crawl in a little way. At once he succeeded
in
getting hold of the little one's arm and drew him out struggling and
crying. But now there rushed also from the hole a Badger, snarling and
angry; it charged at the man, uttering its fighting snort. He fought it
off with his whip, then swung to the saddle with his precious burden and
rode away as for his very life, while the Badger pursued for a time, but
it was easily left behind, and its snorts were lost and forgotten. HOME
AGAIN

The father was coming in from another direction as he saw this
strange sight: a horse galloping madly over the prairie, on its back a
young man shouting loudly, and in his arms a small dirty child,
alternately snarling at his captor, trying to scratch his face, or
struggling to be free. The father was used to changing intensity of feeling at these times,
but he turned pale and held his breath till the words reached him: "I
have got him, thank God! He's all right," and he rushed forward
shouting, "My boy! my boy!"

But he got a rude rebuff. The child glared like a hunted cat, hissed
at him, and menaced with hands held claw fashion. Fear and hate were all
he seemed to express. The door of the house was
flung open and the distracted mother, now suddenly overjoyed, rushed to
join the group. "My darling! my darling!" she sobbed, but little Harry
was not as when he left them. He hung back, he hid his face in the coat
of his captor, he scratched and snarled like a beast, he displayed his
claws and threatened fight, till strong arms gathered him up and placed
him on his mother's knees in the old, familiar room with the pictures,
and the clock ticking as of old, and the smell of frying bacon, his
sister's voice, and his father's form, and, above all, his mother's arms
about him, her magic touch on his brow, and her voice, "My darling! my
darling!