Frazer of Kildonan. These
witnesses may differ as to the details, but all have assured me that in
its main outlines this tale is true, and I gladly tell it, for I want
you to realize the kindly disposition that is in that sturdy, harmless,
noble wild animal that sits on the low prairie mounds, for then I know
that you will join with me in loving him, and in seeking to save his
race from extermination. VIII

The Squirrel and His Jerky-tail Brothers

VIII

The Squirrel and His Jerky-tail Brothers

You remember that Hiawatha christened the Squirrel
"Adjidaumo"–"Tail-in-air" and this Tail-in-air was chattering overhead
as I sat, some twenty-five years ago, on the shore of the Lake of the
Woods with an Ojibwa Indian, checking up the animals' names in the
native tongue. Of course the Red-squirrel was early in our notice. "Ad-je-daw-mo" I called it, but the Indian corrected me;
"Ah-chit-aw-mo" he made it; and when I translated it
"Tail-in-air" he said gravely, "No, it means head downward." Then noting
my surprise, he added, with characteristic courtesy, "Yes, yes, you are
right; if his head is down, his tail must be up." Thoreau talks of the
Red-squirrel flicking his tail like a whip-lash, and the word
"Squirrel," from the Latin "Sciurus" and Greek
"Skia-oura" means "shady tail." Thus all of its names seem to
note the wonderful banner that serves the animal in turn as sun-shade,
signal-flag, coverlet, and parachute. THE CHEEKY
PINE SQUIRREL

A wonderfully extensive kingdom has fallen to Adjidaumo of the shady
tail; all of Canada and most of the Rockies are his. He is at home
wherever there are pine forests and a cool climate; and he covers so
many ranges of diverse conditions that, responding to the new
environments in lesser matters of makeup, we have a score of different
Squirrel races from this parent stock. In size, in tail, in kind or
depth of coat they differ to the expert eye, but so far as I can see
they are exactly alike in all their ways, their calls and their
dispositions. The Pine Squirrel is the form found in the Rockies about the
Yellowstone Park. It is a little darker in colour than the Red-squirrel
of the East, but I find no other difference. It has the same aggressive,
scolding propensities, the same love of the pinyons and their product,
the same friends and the same foes, with one possible partial exception
in the list of habits, and that is in its method of storing up
mushrooms. The pinyons, or nuts of the pinyon pine, are perhaps the most
delicious nuts in all the lap of
bountiful dame Nature, from fir belt in the north to equatorial heat and
on to far Fuego. All wild creatures revel in the pinyons. To the
Squirrels they are more than the staff of life; they are meat and
potatoes, bread and honey, pork and beans, bread and cake, sugar and
chocolate, the sum of comfort, and the promise of continuing joy. But
the pinyon does not bear every year; there are off years, as with other
trees, and the Squirrels might be in a bad way if they had no other
supply of food to lay up for the winter. XXV. Red-squirrel storing mushrooms for winter use Sketched from life in the
Selkirk Mountains, by E. T. Seton

XXV. Red-squirrel storing
mushrooms for winter use
Sketched from life in the Selkirk Mountains, by
E. T.