Ho! he sees his enemy, that hated Coyote, strolling away off
beyond the possibility of doing harm. His confidence is fully restored
as the Coyote gets smaller in the distance and the other Prairie-dogs
coming out seem to endorse his decision and give him renewed confidence. After one or two false starts, he sets off to feed. This means go ten or
twenty feet from the door of his den, for all the grass is eaten off
near home. Among the herbage he sits up high to take a final look around, then
burying his nose in the fodder, he begins his meal. This is the chance
that the waiting, watching, she-Coyote counted on. There is a flash of
gray fur from behind that little grease bush; in three hops she is upon
him. He takes alarm at the first sound and tries to reach the haven
hole, but she snaps him up. With a shake she ends his troubles. He
hardly knows the pain of death, then she bounds away on her back track
to the home den on the distant hillside. She does not come near it
openly and rashly. There is always the possibility of such an approach
betraying the family to some strong enemy on watch. She circles around a
little, scrutinizes the landscape, studies the tracks and the wind, then
comes to the door by more or less devious hidden ways. The sound of a
foot outside is enough to make the little ones cower in absolute
silence, but mother reassures them with a whining call much like that of
a dog mother. They rush out, tumbling over each other in their glee, six
or seven in number usually, but sometimes as high as ten or twelve. Eagerly they come, and that fat Prairie-dog lasts perhaps three minutes,
at the end of which time nothing is left but the larger bones with a
little Coyote busy polishing each of them. Strewn about
the door of the den are many other kindred souvenirs, the bones of
Ground-squirrels, Chipmunks, Rabbits, Grouse, Sheep, and Fawns, with
many kinds of feathers, fur, and hair, to show the great diversity of
Coyote diet. THE
COYOTE'S SENSE OF HUMOUR

To understand the Coyote fully one must remember that he is simply a
wild dog, getting his living by his wits, and saving his life by the
tireless serviceability of his legs; so has developed both these gifts
to an admirable pitch of perfection. He is blessed further with a gift
of music and a sense of humour. When I lived at Yancey's, on the Yellowstone, in 1897, I had a good
example of the latter, and had it daily for a time. The dog attached to
the camp on the inner circle was a conceited, irrepressible little puppy
named Chink. He was so full of energy, enthusiasm, and courage that
there was no room left in him for dog-sense. But it came after a vast
number of humiliating experiences. A Coyote also had attached himself to the camp, but on the outer
circle. At first he came out by night to feed on the garbage pile, but
realizing the peace of the Park he became bolder and called occasionally
by day. Later he was there every day, and was often seen sitting on a
ridge a couple of hundred yards away. ii. Chink's adventures with the Coyote and the Picket-pin Sketches by E. T. Seton

II. Chink's adventures with
the Coyote and the Picket-pin
Sketches by E. T.