T. Seton

A season I spent in the Southern Rockies was an off year for pinyons,
and when September came I was shown what the Squirrels do in such an
emergency. All through autumn the slopes of the hills were dotted with
the umbrellas of countless toadstools or mushrooms, representing many
fat and wholesome species. It is well known that while a few of them are
poisonous, a great many are good food. Scientists can find out which is
which only by slow experiment. "Eat them; if you live they are good, if
you die they are poisonous" has been suggested as a certain method. The
Squirrels must have worked this out long ago, for they surely know the
good ones; and all through late summer they are at work gathering them
for winter use in place of the pine-nuts. Now if the provident Squirrel stored these up as he does the pinyons,
in holes or underground, they would surely go to mush in a short time
and be lost. He makes no such mistake. He stores them in the forked
branches of trees, where they dry out and remain good until needed; and
wisely puts them high enough up to be out of reach of the Deer and low
enough to avoid being dislodged by the wind. As you ramble through the Squirrel-frequented woods, you will often
come across a log or stump which is littered over with the scales fresh
cut from a pine cone; sometimes there is a pile of a bushel or more by
the place; you have stumbled on a Squirrel's workshop. Here is where he
does his husking, and the "clear corn" produced is stored away in some
underground granary till It is needed. The Pine Squirrel loves to nest in a hollow tree, but also builds an
outside nest which at a distance looks like a mass of rubbish. This, on
investigation, turns out to be a convenient warm chamber some six inches
wide and two or three high. It is covered with a waterproof roof of bark
thatch, and entered by a door artfully concealed with layers and fringes
of bark that hide it alike from blood-thirsty foes and piercing winter
blasts. CHIPMUNKS
AND GROUND-SQUIRRELS

The Red-squirrel is safe and happy only when in the tall trees, but
his kinsmen have sought out any and every different environment. One
enormous group of his great grandfather's second cousins have abandoned
tree life altogether. They have settled down like the Dakota farmers, to
be happy on the prairie, where, never having need to get over anything
higher than their own front doorstep, they have lost the last vestige of
power to climb. These are the Ground-squirrels, that in a variety of
forms are a pest in gardens and on farms in most of the country west of
the Mississippi. Standing between these and the true Squirrels are the elegant
Chipmunks, the prettiest and most popular of all the family. They
frequent the borderland between woods and prairie; they climb, if
anything is to be gained by it, but they know, like the
Ground-squirrels, that Mother Earth is a safer retreat in time of danger
than the tallest tree that ever grew. THE
GROUND-SQUIRREL THAT PLAYS PICKET-PIN

Conspicuous in its teeming numbers in the Yellowstone Park is the
Picket-Pin Ground-squirrel. On every level, dry prairie along the great
river I found it in swarms. It looks much like a common Squirrel, but its coat has become more
mud-coloured, and its tail is reduced by long ages of neglect to a mere
vestige of the ancestral banner. It has developed great powers of
burrowing, but it never climbs anything higher than the little mound
that it makes about the door of its home. The Picket-pin is an interesting and picturesque creature in some
ways, but it has one habit that I cannot quite condone. In this land of
sun and bright blue air, this world of outdoor charm, it comes forth
tardily in late spring, as late sometimes as the first of May, and
promptly retires in mid-August, when blazing summer is on the face of
the earth, and the land is a land of plenty. Down it goes after three
and one half short months, to sleep for eight and a half long ones; and
since during these three and a half months it is above ground only in
broad daylight, this means that for only two months of the year it is
active, and the other ten, four fifths of its life, it passes in a
deathlike sleep. Of course, the Picket-pin might reply that it has probably as many
hours of active life as any of its kind, only it breaks them up into
sections, with long blanks of rest between. Whether this defense is a
good one or not, we have no facts at present to determine. It has a fashion of sitting up straight on the doorway mound when it
wishes to take an observation, and the more it is alarmed by the
approach of an enemy the straighter it sits up, pressing its paws tight
to its ribs, so that at a short distance it looks like a picket-pin of
wood; hence the name. Oftentimes some tenderfoot going in the evening to stake out his
horse and making toward the selected patch of grassy prairie, exclaims,
"Good Luck! here's a picket-pin already driven in." But on leading up
his horse within ten or twelve feet of the pin, it gives a little
"chirr" and dives down out of sight. Then the said tenderfoot
realizes why the creature got the name. The summer of 1897 I spent in the Park about Yancey's and there had
daily chances of seeing the Picket-pin and learning its ways, for the
species was there in thousands on the little prairie about my cabin. I
think I am safe in saying that there were ten families to the acre of
land on all the level prairie in this valley. CHINK AND
THE PICKET-PINS

As already noted in the Coyote chapter, we had in camp that summer
the little dog called Chink. He was just old enough to think himself a
remarkable dog with a future before him. There was
hardly anything that Chink would not attempt, except perhaps keeping
still. He was always trying to do some absurd and impossible thing, or,
if he did attempt the possible, he usually spoiled his best efforts by
his way of going about it. He once spent a whole morning trying to run
up a tall, straight, pine tree in whose branches was a snickering Pine
Squirrel. The darling ambition of his life for some weeks was to catch one of
the Picket-pin Ground-squirrels that swarmed on the prairie about the
camp. Chink had determined to catch one of these Ground-squirrels the very
first day he came into the valley. Of course, he went about it in his
own original way, doing everything wrong end first, as usual. This, his
master said, was due to a streak of Irish in his makeup. So Chink would
begin a most elaborate stalk a quarter of a mile from the
Ground-squirrel. After crawling on his breast from tussock to tussock
for a hundred yards or so, the nervous strain would become too great,
and Chink, getting too much excited to crawl, would rise on his feet and
walk straight toward the Squirrel, which would now be sitting up by its
hole, fully alive to the situation. After a minute or two of this very open approach, Chink's excitement
would overpower all caution. He
would begin running, and at the last, just as he should have done his
finest stalking, he would go bounding and barking toward the
Ground-squirrel, which would sit like a peg of wood till the proper
moment, then dive below with a derisive chirrup, throwing with its hind
feet a lot of sand right into Chink's eager, open mouth. Day after day this went on with level sameness, and still Chink did
not give up, although I feel sure he had bushels of sand thrown in his
mouth that summer by the impudent Picket-pins. Perseverance, he seemed to believe, must surely win in the end, as
indeed it did. For, one day, he made an unusually elaborate stalk after
an unusually fine big Picket-pin, carried out all his absurd tactics,
finishing with the grand, boisterous charge, and actually caught his
victim; but this time it happened to be a wooden picket-pin. Any one who doubts that a dog knows when he has made a fool of himself
should have seen Chink that day as he sheepishly sneaked out of sight
behind the tent. CHIPMUNKS

Every one recognizes as a Chipmunk the lively little creature that,
with striped coat and with tail aloft, dashes across all the roads and
chirrups on all
the log piles that line the roads throughout the timbered portions of
the Park. I am sure I have often seen a thousand of them in a mile of
road between the Mammoth Hot Springs and Norris Geyser Basin. The
traveller who makes the entire round of the Park may see a hundred
thousand if he keeps his eyes open. While every one knows them at once
for Chipmunks, it takes a second and more careful glance to show they
are of three totally distinct kinds. THE
GROUND-SQUIRREL THAT PRETENDS IT'S A CHIPMUNK

First, largest, and least common, is the Big Striped Ground-squirrel,
the Golden Ground-squirrel or Say's Ground-squirrel, called
scientifically Citellus lateralis cinerascens. This, in spite
of its livery, is not a Chipmunk at all but a Ground-squirrel that is
trying hard to be a Chipmunk. And it makes a good showing so far as
manners, coat and stripes are concerned, but the incontrovertible
evidence of its inner life, as indicated by skull and makeup, tells us
plainly that it is merely a Ground-squirrel, a first cousin to the
ignoble Picket-pin. I found it especially common in the higher parts of the Park. It is
really a mountain species, at home chiefly among the rocks, yet is very
ready to
take up its abode under buildings. At the Lake Hotel I saw a number of
them that lived around the back door, and were almost tamed through the
long protection there given them. Like most of these small rodents, they
are supposed to be grain-eaters but they really are omnivorous, and
quite ready to eat flesh and eggs, as well as seeds and fruit. Warren in
his "Mammals of Colorado," tells of having seen one of these
Ground-squirrels kill some young Bluebirds; and adds another instance of
flesh-eating observed in the Yellowstone Park, where he and two friends,
riding along one of the roads, saw a Say Ground-squirrel demurely
squatting on a log, holding in its arms a tiny young Meadow Mouse, from
which it picked the flesh as one might pick corn from a cob. Meadow Mice
are generally considered a nuisance, and the one devoured probably was
of a cantankerous disposition; but just the same it gives one an
unpleasant sensation to think of this elegant little creature, in
appearance, innocence personified, wearing all the insignia of a
grain-eater, yet ruthlessly indulging in such a bloody and cannibal
feast. A
FOUR-LEGGED BIRD–THE NORTHERN CHIPMUNK

The early naturalists who first made the acquaintance of the Eastern
Ground-squirrel named it
Tamias or "The Steward." Later the Northern Chipmunk was discovered and
it was found to be more of a Chipmunk than its Eastern cousin. The new
one had all the specialties of the old kind, but in a higher degree. So
they named this one Eutamias, which means "good" or "extra
good" Chipmunk. And extra good this exquisite little creature surely is
in all that goes to make a charming, graceful, birdy, pert and vivacious
four-foot. In everything but colours it is Eutamias or Tamias of a more
intensified type. Its tail is long in proportion and carried
differently, being commonly held straight up, so that the general
impression one gets is of a huge tail with a tiny striped animal
attached to its lower end. Its excessive numbers along the roads in the Park are due to two
things: First, the food, for oats are continually spilled from the
freighting wagons. Second, the protection of piles of pine trees cut and
cast aside in clearing the roadway. There is one habit of the Eastern Chipmunk that I have not noted in
the mountain species, and that is the habit of song. In the early spring
and late autumn when the days are bright and invigorating, the Eastern
Chipmunk will mount some log, stump or other perch and express his
exuberant joy in a song which is a rapid repetition of a
bird-like note suggested by "Chuck," "Chuck," or "Chock," "Chock." This
is kept up two or three minutes without interruption, and is one of
those delightful woodland songs whose charm comes rather from
association than from its inherent music. If our Western Chipmunk is as far ahead in matters musical as he is
in form and other habits, I shall expect him to render no less than the
song of a nightingale when he gives himself up to express his wild
exuberance in a chant. I shall never forget the days I spent with a naturalist friend in an
old mill building in western Manitoba. It was in a pine woods which was
peopled with these little Chipmunks. They had hailed the mill and its
wood piles, and especially the stables, with their squandered oats, as
the very gifts of a beneficient Providence for their use and benefit. They had concentrated on the mill; they were there in hundreds, almost
thousands, and whenever one looked across the yard in sunny hours one
could see a dozen or more together. The old mill was infested with them as an old brewery with rats. But
in many respects besides beauty they were an improvement on rats: they
did not smell, they were not vicious, and they did not move by
night. During the daytime they were everywhere and into everything. Our
slender stock of provisions was badly reduced when, by mischance, the
tin box was left open a few hours, but we loved to see so much beautiful
life about and so forgave them. One of our regular pleasures was to sit
back after a meal and watch these pert-eyed, four-legged birds scramble
onto the table, eat the scraps and lick all the plates and platters
clean. Like all the Chipmunks and Ground-squirrels, this animal has
well-developed cheek-pouches which it uses for carrying home seeds and
roots which serve for food in the winter. Or perhaps we should say in
the early spring, for the Chipmunk, like the Ground-squirrel, goes into
the ground for a long repose as soon as winter comes down hard and
white. Yet it does not go so early or stay so late as its big cousin. October still sees it active, even running about in the snow. As late as
October 31st at Breckenridge, Col., I saw one sitting up on a log and
eating some grass or seeds during a driving snowstorm. High up in the
Shoshonees, after winter had settled down, on October 8, 1898, I saw one
of these bright creatures bounding through the snow. On a stone he
paused to watch me and I made a hasty sketch of his attitude. Then, again, it is out in the spring, early in April, so that it is
above ground for at least seven months of the year. Its nest is in a
chamber at the end of a long tunnel that it digs under ground, usually
among roots that make hard digging for the creatures that would rout
them out. Very little is known as yet, however, about the growth or
development of the young, so here is an opportunity for the young
naturalist who would contribute something to our knowledge of this
interesting creature. A STRIPED
PIGMY–THE LEAST CHIPMUNK

Closely akin to this one and commonly mistaken for its young, is the
Least Chipmunk (Eutamias minimus), which is widely diffused in
the great dry central region of the Continent. Although so generally
found and so visible when found, its history is practically unknown. It
probably lives much like its relatives, raising a brood of four to six
young in a warm chamber far underground, and brings them up to eat all
manner of seeds, grains, fruits, herbs, berries, insects, birds, eggs,
and even mice, just as do most of its kinsmen, but no one has proved any
of these things. Any exact observations you may make are sure to be
acceptable contributions to science. IX

The Rabbits and their Habits

XXVII. The Snowshoe Hare is a cross between a Rabbit and a Snowdrift Captives;
photo by E. T. Seton

XXVII. The Snowshoe Hare is a
cross between a Rabbit and a Snowdrift
Captives; photo by E. T.