I was camped with a lot of Sioux
Indians on the banks of the Cheyenne River in Dakota. They had their
families with them, and about sundown one of the boys ran into the tepee
for a gun, and then fired into the grass. His little brother gave a
war-whoop that their "pa" might well have been proud of, then rushed
forward and held up a fat
Cottontail, kicking her last kick. Another, a smaller Cottontail, was
found not far away, and half a dozen young redskins armed with sticks
crawled up, then suddenly let them fly. Bunny was hit, knocked over, and
before he could recover, a dog had him. I had been some distance away. On hearing the uproar I came back
toward my own campfire, and as I did so, my Indian guide pointed to a
Cottontail twenty feet away gazing toward the boys. The guide picked up
a stick of firewood. The boys saw him, and knowing that another Rabbit was there they came
running. Now I thought they had enough game for supper and did not wish
them to kill poor Molly. But I knew I could not stop them by saying
that, so I said: "Hold on till I make a photo." Some of them understood;
at any rate, my guide did, and all held back as I crawled toward the
Rabbit. She took alarm and was bounding away when I gave a shrill
whistle which turned her into a "frozen" statue. Then I came near and
snapped the camera. The Indian boys now closed in and were going to
throw, but I cried out: "Hold on! not yet; I want another." So I chased
Bunny twenty or thirty yards, then gave another shrill whistle, and got
a fourth snap. Again I had to hold
the boys back by "wanting another picture." Five times I did this,
taking five pictures, and all the while steering Molly toward a great
pile of drift logs by the river. I had now used up all my films. The boys were getting impatient. So I addressed the Cottontail
solemnly and gently: "Bunny, I have done my best for you. I cannot hold
these little savages any longer. You see that pile of logs over there? Well, Bunny, you have just five seconds to get into that wood-pile. Now
git!" and I shooed and clapped my hands, and all the young Indians
yelled and hurled their clubs, the dogs came bounding and Molly fairly
dusted the earth. "Go it, Molly!"

"Go it, dogs!"

"Ki-yi, Injuns!"

The clubs flew and rattled around her, but Molly put in ten feet to
the hop and ten hops to the second (almost), and before the chase was
well begun it was over; her cotton tuft disappeared under a log; she was
safe in the pile of wood, where so far as I know she lived happy ever
after. THE RABBIT
THAT WEARS SNOWSHOES

The Snowshoe Rabbit is found in all parts of the Park, though not in
very great numbers. It is
called "Snowshoe" on account of the size of its feet, which, already
large, are in snow time made larger by fringes of stiff bristles that
give the creature such a broad area of support that it can skip on the
surface of soft snow while all its kinsmen sink in helplessness. Here is the hind foot of a Snowshoe in winter, contrasted with the
hind foot of a Jackrabbit that was nearly three times its weight. Rabbits are low in the scale of intelligence, but they are high
enough to have some joy in social life. It always gives one a special
thrill of satisfaction when favoured with a little glimpse into the home
ways, the games, or social life of an animal; and the peep I had into
the Rabbit world one night, though but a small affair, I have always
remembered with pleasure, and hope for a second similar chance. This took place in the Bitterroot Mountains in Idaho, in 1902. My
wife and I were out on a pack-train trip with two New York friends. We
had seen some rough country in Colorado and Wyoming, but we soon agreed
that the Bitterroots were the roughest of all the mountains. It took
twenty-eight horses to carry the stuff, for which eighteen were enough
in the more southern Rockies. The trails were so crooked and hidden in thick
woods, that sometimes the man at the rear might ride the whole day, and
never see all the horses until we stopped again for the night. THE TERROR
OF THE MOUNTAIN TRAILS

There were other annoyances, and among them a particularly dangerous
animal. The country was fairly stocked with Moose, Elk, Blacktail,
Sheep, Goats, Badgers, Skunks, Wolverines, Foxes, Coyotes, Mountain
Lions, Lynx, Wolves, Black Bears and Grizzly Bears, but it was none of
these that inspired us with fear. The deadly, dangerous creature, the
worst of all, was the common Yellow-Jacket-Wasp. These Wasps abounded in
the region. Their nests were so plentiful that many were on, or by, the
narrow crooked trails that we must follow. Generally these trails were
along the mountain shoulder with a steep bank on the upside, and a sheer
drop on the other. It was at just such dangerous places that we seemed
most often to find the Yellow-Jackets at home. Roused by the noise and
trampling, they would assail the horses in swarms, and then there would
be a stampede of bucking, squealing, tortured animals. Some would be
forced off the trail, and, as has often happened elsewhere, dashed to
their death below. This was the daily danger. One morning late in September we left camp about eight, and set off
in the usual line, the chief guide leading and the rest of us
distributed at intervals among the pack-horses, as a control. Near the
rear was the cook, after him a pack-horse with tins and dishes, and last
of all myself. At first we saw no wasps, as the morning was frosty, but about ten
the sun had become strong, the air was quite mild, and the wasps became
lively. For all at once I heard the dreaded cry,
"Yellow-Jackets!" Then in a moment it was taken up by the cook
just ahead of me. "Yellow-Jackets! look out!" with a note almost of
terror in his voice. At once his horse began to plunge and buck. I saw the man of pots
clinging to the saddle and protecting his face as best he could, while
his mount charged into the bushes and disappeared. Then "bzz-z-z-z" they went at the pot-horse and again the
bucking and squealing, with pots going clank, clink, rattle and
away. "Bzz-z-z-z-z" and in a moment the dark and raging little
terrors came at me in a cloud. I had no time to stop, or get off, or
seek another way. So I jerked up a coat collar to save my face, held my
head low, and tried to hold on, while the little pony went insane with
the fiery baptism now upon him. Plunging, kicking, and squealing he
went, and I
stuck, to him for one–two–three jumps, but at number four, as I remember
it, I went flying over his head, fortunately up hill, and landed in the
bushes unhurt, but ready for peace at any price. It is good old wisdom to "lay low in case of doubt," and very low I
lay there, waiting for the war to cease. It was over in a few seconds,
for my horse dashed after his fellows and passed through the bushes, so
that the winged scorpions were left behind. Presently I lifted my head
and looked cautiously toward the wasp's-nest. It was in a bank twenty
feet away, and the angry swarm was hovering over it, like smoke from a
vent hole. They were too angry, and I was too near, to run any risks, so
I sank down again and waited. In one or two minutes I peered once more,
getting a sight under a small log lying eight or ten feet away. And as I
gazed waspward my eye also took in a brown furry creature calmly sitting
under the log, wabbling his nose at me and the world about him. It was a
young Snowshoe Rabbit. BUNNY'S
RIDE

There is a certain wild hunter instinct in us all, a wish to capture
every wood creature we meet. That impulse came on me in power. There was
no more danger from wasps, so I got cautiously above this
log, put a hand down at each side, grabbed underneath, and the Rabbit
was my prisoner. Now I had him, what was I going to do with him–kill
him? Certainly not.