There is
something up. That little chap is ringing up central."

"I never saw so many together in all my life," said he. Then added:
"I've got an acetylene lantern; perhaps we can get a picture."

As soon as he had his camera and lantern, we went cautiously to the
rabbity side of the woods; several ran past us. Then we sat down on a
smooth place. My friend held the camera, I held the light, but we rested
both on the ground. Very soon a Rabbit darted from the darkness into the
great cone of light from the lantern, gazed at that wonder for a moment,
gave a "thump" and disappeared. Then another came; then two or three. They gazed into this unspeakably dazzling thing, then one gave the alarm
by thumping, and all were lost to sight. But they came again and in ever-increasing numbers, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10 at
last, now in plain view, gazing wildly at the bright light, pushing
forward as though fascinated. Some two or three so close together that
they were touching each other. Then one gave the thumping alarm, and all
scattered like leaves, to vanish like ghosts. But they came back again,
to push and crawl up nearer to that blazing wonder. Some of the back
ones were skipping about but the front ones edged up in a sort of
wild-eyed fascination. Closer and closer they got, then the first one
was so near that reaching out to smell the lantern he burnt his nose,
and at his alarm thump, all disappeared in the woods. But they soon
returned to disport again in that amazing
brightness; and, stimulated by the light, they danced about, chasing
each other, dodging around in large circles till one of the outermost
leaped over the camera box and another following him, leaped up and sat
on it. My friend was just behind, hidden by the light in front, and he
had no trouble in clutching the impudent Rabbit with both hands. Instantly it set up a loud squealing. The other Rabbits gave a stamping
signal, and in a moment all were lost in the woods, but the one we held. Quickly we transported it to another leatheroid box, intending to take
its picture in the morning, but the prisoner had a means of attack that
I had not counted on. Just as we were going to sleep he began with his
front feet on the resounding box and beat a veritable drum tattoo of
alarm. Every one in camp was awakened, and again, as we were dropping
off, the camp was roused by another loud "tattoo." For nearly two hours
this went on; then, about midnight, utterly unable to sleep, I arose and
let the drummer go about his business, do anything or go anywhere, so
only he would be quiet and let us attend to ours. XXIX.