Seton

XXX. Snowshoe Rabbits dancing in the light of the lantern Sketch by E. T. Seton

XXX. Snowshoe Rabbits dancing
in the light of the lantern
Sketch by E. T. Seton

Next morning I photographed the little Bunny, and set him free to
join his kin. It is a surprising fact that though we spent two weeks in
this valley, and
a month in those mountains, we did not see another wild Rabbit. This incident is unique in my experience. It is the only time when I
found the Snowshoe Hares gathered for a social purpose, and is the only
approach to a game that I ever heard of among them. THE GHOST
RABBIT

An entirely different side of Rabbit life is seen in another
mysterious incident that I have never been able to explain. At one time when I lived in Ontario, I had a very good hound that was
trained to follow all kinds of trails. I used to take him out in the
woods at night, give him general instructions "to go ahead, and report
everything afoot"; then sit down on a log to listen to his reports. And
he made them with remarkable promptness. Slight differences in his bark,
and the course taken, enabled me to tell at once whether it was Fox,
Coon, Rabbit, Skunk, or other local game. And his peculiar falsetto yelp
when the creature treed, was a joyful invitation to "come and see for
yourself."

The hound's bark for a Fox was deep, strong, and at regular intervals
as befitted the strong trail, and the straightaway run. But for a
Rabbit it
was broken, uncertain, irregular and rarely a good deep bay. One night the dog bawled in his usual way, "Rabbit, Rabbit, Rabbit,"
and soon leaving the woods he crossed an open field where the moon shone
brightly, and I could easily see to follow. Still yelping "Rabbit,
Rabbit, Rabbit," he dashed into a bramble thicket in the middle of the
field. But at once he dashed out again shrieking, "Police! Help! Murder!" and took refuge behind me, cowering up against my legs. At the
same moment from the side of that bramble thicket there went out–a
Rabbit. Yes, a common Rabbit all right, but it was a
snow-white one. The first albino Cottontail I had ever seen,
and apparently the first albino Cottontail that[C] Ranger had ever seen. Dogs are not
supposed to be superstitious, but on that occasion Ranger behaved
exactly as though he thought that he had seen a ghost. A
NARROW-GAUGE MULE–THE PRAIRIE HARE

One has to see this creature with its great flopping ears, and its
stiff-legged jumping like a bucking mule, to realize the aptness of its
Western nickname. As it bounds away from your pathway its bushy snow-white tail and the
white behind the black-tipped ears will point out plainly that it is
neither the Texas Jackrabbit nor the Rocky Mountain Cottontail, but the
White-tailed Jackrabbit, the finest of all our Hares. I have met it in woods, mountains, and prairies, from California to
Manitoba and found it the wildest of its race and almost impossible of
approach; except in the great exceptional spot, the Yellowstone
Park. Here in the August of 1912 I met with two, close to the Mammoth
Hot Springs Hotel. At a distance of thirty feet they gave me good
chances to take pictures, and though the light was very bad I made a
couple of snaps. Fifteen years ago, when first I roamed in the Park, the
Prairie Hare was exceedingly rare, but now, like so many of the wild
folk, it has become quite common. Another evidence of the efficacy of
protection. This silvery-gray creature turns pure white in the winter, when the
snow mantle of his range might otherwise make it too conspicuous. THE BUMP
OF MOSS THAT SQUEAKS

No matter how horrible a certain climate or surroundings may seem to
us, they are sure to be the
ideal of some wild creature, its very dream of bliss. I suppose that
slide rock, away up in cold, bleak, windy country above the timber-line,
is absolutely the unloveliest landscape and most repulsive home ground
that a man could find in the mountains and yet it is the paradise, the
perfect place of a wonderful little creature that is found on the high
peaks of the Rockies from California to Alaska. It is not especially abundant in the Yellowstone Park, but it was
there that first I made its acquaintance, and Easterners will meet with
it in the great Reserve more often than in all other parts of its range
put together. As one reaches the Golden Gate, near Mammoth Hot Springs, many little
animals of the Ground-squirrel group are seen running about, and from
the distance comes a peculiar cry, a short squeak uttered every ten or
fifteen seconds. You stop, perhaps search with your eye the remote
hillside, but you are looking too far afield. Glance toward the tumbled
rock piles, look at every high point. There on top of one you note a
little gray lump, like a bump of moss, the size of your fist, clinging
to the point of the rock. Fix your glasses on it, and you will see
plainly that the squeak is made by this tiny creature, like a
quarter-grown Rabbit with
short, round, white-rimmed ears and no visible tail. This is the curious
little animal that cannot be happy anywhere but in the slide rock; this
is the Calling Hare. "Little Chief Hare" is its Indian name, but it has
many others of much currency, such as "Pika," and "Starved Rat," the
latter because it is never fat. The driver calls it a "Coney," or "Rock
Rabbit." In its colour, size, shape, and habits it differs from all
other creatures in the region; it is impossible to mistake it. Though a
distant kinsman of the Rabbits, it is unlike them in looks and ways. Thus it has, as noted, the very un-rabbit-like habit of squeaking from
some high lookout. This is doubtless a call of alarm to let the rest of
the company know that there is danger about, for the Coney is a
gregarious creature; there may be a hundred of them in the
rock-slide. Some years ago, in Colorado, I sketched one of the Coneys by help of
a field glass. He was putting all the force of his energetic little soul
into the utterance of an alarm cry for the benefit of his people. But the most interesting habit of this un-rabbity Rabbit is its way
of preparing for winter. When the grass, the mountain dandelions, and the peavines are at
their best growth for making hay,
the Coney, with his kind, goes warily from his stronghold in the rocks
to the nearest stretch of herbage, and there cuts as much as he can
carry of the richest growths; then laden with a bundle as big as
himself, and very much longer, he makes for the rocks, and on some flat
open place spreads the herbage out to be cured for his winter hay. Out
in full blaze of the sun he leave it, and if some inconsiderate rock
comes in between, to cast a shadow on his hay a-curing, he moves the one
that is easiest to move; he never neglects his hay. When dry enough to
be safe, he packs it away into his barn, the barn being a sheltered
crevice in the rocks where the weather cannot harm it, and where it will
continue good until the winter time, when otherwise there would be a sad
pinch of famine in the Coney world. The trappers say that they can tell
whether the winter will be hard or open by the amount of food stored up
in the Coney barns. Many a one of these I have examined in the mountains of British
Columbia and Colorado, as well as in the Park. The quantity of hay in
them varies from what might fill a peck measure to what would make a
huge armful. Among the food plants used, I found many species of grass,
thistle, meadow-rue, peavine, heath, and the leaves of
several composite plants. I suspect that fuller observations will show
that they use every herb not actually poisonous, that grows in the
vicinity of their citadel. More than one of these wads of hay had in the
middle of it a nest or hollow; not, I suspect, the home nest where the
young are raised, but a sort of winter restaurant where they could go
while the ground was covered with snow, and sitting in the midst of
their provisions, eat to their heart's content. It is not unlikely that in this we see the growth of the storage
habit, beginning first with a warm nest of hay, which it was found could
be utilized for food when none other was available. The fact that these
barns are used year after year is shown by the abundance of pellets in
several layers which were found in and about them. THE
WEATHERWISE CONEY

A very wise little people is this little people of the Rocks. Not
only do they realize that in summer they must prepare for winter, but
they know how to face a present crisis, however unexpected. To
appreciate the following instance, we must remember that the central
thought in the Coney's life is his "grub pile" for winter use, and next
that he is a strictly daytime animal. I have often slept near
a Coney settlement and never heard a sound or seen a sign of their being
about after dark. Nevertheless, Merriam tells us that he and Vernon
Bailey once carried their blankets up to a Coney colony above
timber-line in the Salmon River Mountains of Idaho, intending to spend
the night there and to study the Coneys whose piles of hay were visible
in all directions on their rocks. As this was about the first of
September, it was natural to expect fair weather and a complete curing
of the hay in a week or so. But a fierce storm set in with the
descending night. The rain changed to hail and then to snow, and much to
the surprise of the naturalists, they heard the squeak of the Coneys all
night long. These animals love the sunshine, the warmth and the daylight, and
dread cold and darkness as much as we do. It must have been a bitter
experience when at the call of the older ones every little Coney had to
tumble out of his warm bed in the chill black hours and face the driving
sleet to save the winter's supplies. But tumble out they did, and
overtime they worked, hard and well, for when the morning dawned the
slide-rock and the whole world was covered deep in snow, but every
haycock had been removed to a safer place under the rocks, and the
wisdom of the Coney once more exemplified, with adequate energy to make
it effective. XXXI. Snowshoe Rabbits fascinated by the lantern Sketched in the Bitterroot
Mts. by E.