Young guides
are often fresh and shallow, but the quiet old fellows, that have spent
their lives in the mountains, must be good or they could not stay in the
business; and they have seen so much and been so far that they are like
rare old manuscript volumes, difficult to read, but unique and full of
value. It is not easy to get them to talk, but there is a combination
that often does it. First, show yourself worthy of their respect by
holding up your end, be it in an all-day climb or breakneck ride; then
at night, after the others have gone to bed, you sit while the old guide
smokes, and by a few brief questions and full attention, show that you
value any observations he may choose to make. Many happy hours and much
important information have been my reward for just such cautious play,
and often as we sat, there flitted past, in the dim light, the silent
shadowy
forms of the campfire ghosts. Swift, not twinkling, but looming light
and fading, absolutely silent. Sometimes approaching so near that the
still watcher can get the glint of beady eyes or even of a snowy breast,
for these ghosts are merely the common Mice of the mountains, abounding
in every part of the West. There are half a dozen different kinds, yet most travellers will be
inclined to bunch them all, and pass them by as mere Mice. But they are
worthy of better treatment. Three, at least, are so different in form
and ways that you should remember them by their names. First is the Whitefooted or Deer-mouse. This is the one that
you find in the coffee pot or the water bucket in the morning; this is
the one that skips out of the "grub box" when the cook begins breakfast;
and this is the one that runs over your face with its cold feet as you
sleep nights. It is one of the most widely diffused mammals in North
America to-day, and probably the most numerous. It is an elegant little creature, with large, lustrous black eyes
like those of a Deer, a fact which, combined with its large ears, the
fawn-coloured back, and the pure white breast, has given it the name of
"Deer-mouse." It is noted for drumming with one foot as a call to its
mate, and for uttering a
succession of squeaks and trills that serve it as a song. Sometimes its nest is underground; and sometimes in a tree, whence
the name Tree-mouse. It breeds several times in a year and does not
hibernate, so is compelled to lay up stores of food for winter use. To
help it in doing this it has a very convenient pair of capacious
pockets, one in each cheek, opening into the mouth. THE
JUMPING MOUSE

He glides around the fire much as the others do, but at the approach
of danger, he simply fires himself out of a catapult, afar into the
night. Eight or ten feet he can cover in one of these bounds and he can,
and does, repeat them as often as necessary. How he avoids knocking out
his own brains in his travels I have not been able to understand. This is the New World counterpart of the Jerboa, so familiar in our
school books as a sort of diminutive but glorified kangaroo that
frequents the great Pyramids. It is so like a Jerboa in build and
behaviour that I was greatly surprised and gratified to find my
scientist friends quite willing that I should style it the American
representative of the African group. The country folk in the East will tell you that there are "seven
sleepers" in our woods, and enumerate them thus: the Bear, the Coon, the
Skunk, the Woodchuck, the Chipmunk, the Bat, and the Jumping Mouse. All
are good examples, but the longest, soundest sleeper of the whole
somnolent brotherhood is the Jumping Mouse. Weeks before summer is ended
it has prepared a warm nest deep underground, beyond the reach of cold
or rain, and before the early frost has nipped the aster, the Jumping
Mouse and his wife curl up with their long tails around themselves like
cords on a spool, and sleep the deadest kind of a dead sleep, unbroken
by even a snore, until summer is again in the land, and frost and snow
unknown. This means at least seven months on the Yellowstone. Since the creature is chiefly nocturnal, the traveller is not likely
to see it, excepting late at night when venturesome individuals often
come creeping about the campfire, looking for scraps or crumbs; or
sometimes other reckless youngsters of the race, going forth to seek
their fortunes, are found drowned in the tanks or wells about the
hotels. XXXIV.