Seton

Here is a diagram of a Jumper in the act of living up to its
reputation. And at once one asks what is the reason for this
interminable tail. The answer is, it is the tail to the kite, the
feathering to the
arrow; and observation shows that a Jumping Mouse that has lost its tail
is almost helpless to escape from danger. A good naturalist records that
one individual that was de-tailed by a mowing machine, jumped
frantically and far, but had no control of the direction, and just as
often as not went straight up or landed wrong end to, and sometimes on a
second bound was back where it had started from. It is very safe to say that all unusual developments serve a very
vital purpose in the life of the creature, but we are not always so
fortunate as in this case, to know what that purpose is. THE
CALLING MOUSE

One day fifteen years ago I was sitting on a low bank near Baronett's
Bridge across the Yellowstone, a mile and a half from Yancey's. The bank
was in an open place, remote from cliffs or thick woods; it was high,
dry, and dotted with holes of rather larger than field-mouse size, which
were further peculiar in that most of them went straight down and none
was connected with any visible overland runways. All of which is secondary to the fact that I was led to the bank by a
peculiar bleating noise like the "weak" of a Calling Hare, but higher
pitched. As I passed the place the squeakers were left behind me, and so at
last I traced the noise to some creature underground. But what it was I
could not see or determine. I knew only from the size of the hole it
must be as small as a Mouse. Not far away from this I drew some tracks I found in the dust, and
later when I showed the drawing, and told the story to a naturalist
friend, he said: "I had the same experience in that country once, and
was puzzled until I found out by keeping a captive that the creature in
the bank was a Grasshopper Mouse or a Calling Mouse, and those in your
drawing are its tracks."

At one time it was considered an extremely rare animal, but now,
having discovered its range, we know it to be quite abundant. In
northern New Mexico I found one species so common in the corn-field that
I could catch two or three every night with a few mousetraps. But it is
scarce on the Yellowstone, and all my attempts to trap it were
frustrated by the much more abundant Deer-mice, which sprang the bait
and sacrificed themselves, every time I tried for the Squeaker. In the fall of 1912 I was staying at Standing Rock Agency in North
Dakota. On the broken ground, between the river and the high level
prairie, I noted a ridge with holes exactly like those I had seen
on the Yellowstone. A faint squeak underground gave additional and
corroborative evidence. So I set a trap and next night had a specimen of
the Squeaker as well as a couple of the omnipresent Deer-mice. Doubtless the Calling Mouse has an interesting and peculiar life
history, but little is known of it except that it dwells on the dry
plains, is a caller by habit;–through not around the campfire–it feeds
largely on grasshoppers, and is in mortal terror of ants. XI

Sneak-cats
Big and Small

XI

Sneak-cats–Big and Small

You may ride five hundred miles among the mountains, in a country
where these beasts of prey abound, and yet see never a hair of a living
Wildcat. But how many do you suppose see you?