T. Seton

MISUNDERSTOOD–THE
CANADA LYNX

The southern part of North America is occupied by Bobcats of various
kinds, the northern part by Lynxes, their very near kin, and there is a
narrow belt of middle territory occupied by both. The Yellowstone Park
happens to be in that belt, so we find here both the Mountain Bobcat and
the Canada Lynx. I remember well three scenes from my childhood days in Canada, in
which this animal was the central figure. A timid neighbour of ours was
surprised one day to see a large Lynx come out of the woods in broad
daylight, and walk toward his house. He went inside, got his gun, opened
the door a little, and knelt down. The Lynx walked around the house at
about forty yards distance, the man covering it with the gun most of the
time, but his hand was shaking, the gun was wabbling, and he was
tormented with the thought, "What if I miss, then that brute will come
right at me, and then, oh, dear! what?"

He had not the nerve to fire and the Lynx walked back to the woods. How well I remember that man. A kind-hearted, good fellow, but oh! so
timid. His neighbours guyed him about it, until at last he sold out his
farm and joined the ministry. The next scene was similar. Two men were out Coon-hunting, when their
dogs treed something. A blazing fire soon made, showed plainly aloft in
the tree the whiskered head of a Lynx. The younger man levelled his gun
at it, but the other clung to his arm begging him to come away,
reminding him that both had families dependent on them, and earnestly
protesting that the Lynx, if wounded, would certainly come down and kill
the whole outfit. The third was wholly different. In broad daylight a Lynx came out of
the woods near a settler's house, entered the pasture and seized a lamb. The good wife heard the noise of the sheep rushing, and went out in time
to see the Lynx dragging the victim. She seized a stick and went for the
robber. He growled defiantly, but at the first blow of the stick he
dropped the lamb and ran. Then that plucky woman carried the lamb to the
house; finding four deep cuts in its neck she sewed them up, and after a
few days of careful nursing restored the woolly one to its mother, fully
recovered. The first two incidents illustrate the crazy ideas that
some folks have about the Lynx, and the last shows what the real
character of the animal is. I have once or twice been followed by Lynxes, but I am sure it was
merely out of curiosity. Many times I have met them in the woods at
close range and each time they have gazed at me in a sort of mild-eyed
wonder. There was no trace of ferocity in the gaze, but rather of
innocent confidence. The earliest meeting I ever had with a Lynx I shall remember when all
the other meetings have been dimmed by time, but I have used the
incident without embellishment in the early part of "Two Little
Savages," so shall not repeat it here. THE SHYEST
THING IN THE WOODS–MOUNTAIN LION, PUMA OR COUGAR

Reference to the official report shows that there are about one
hundred Mountain Lions now ranging the Yellowstone Park. And yet one is
very safe in believing that not twenty-five persons of those living in
the Park have ever seen one. By way of contrast, the report gives the number of Blackbear at the
same–about one hundred–and yet every one living in the Park or passing
through, has seen scores of Bears. Why this difference?