even in the Yellowstone Park. Remember this, oh traveller, sitting in front of the Mammoth Hot Springs
Hotel! you are in sight of two famous Cougar haunts–Mt. Evarts and
Bunsen Peak, and the chances are that, as you sit and perhaps read these
lines, a Cougar lolling gray-brown among the gray-brown rocks of the
mountain opposite, is calmly surveying all the world about, including
yourself. If you consult the witching contraband books that we of a bygone age
used to read surreptitiously in school hours, you will learn that "the
Cougar is a fearsome beast of invincible prowess. He can kill a Buffalo
or an ox with a blow of his paw, and run off with it at full speed or
carry it up a tree to devour, and he is by choice a man-eater. Commonly
uttering the cry of a woman in distress to decoy the gallant victim to
his doom." If, on the other hand, you consult some careful natural
histories, or one or two of the seasoned guides, you learn that the
Cougar, though horribly destructive
among Deer, sheep, and colts, rarely kills a larger prey, and never is
known to attack man. I have had many persons take exception to the last statement, and
give contrary proof by referring to some hair-lifting incident which
seemed to be a refutation. But most of these attacks by Cougars have
failed to stand the disintegrating power of a carefully focussed
searchlight. There is no doubt that the Cougar is addicted to horseflesh, as his
scientific name implies (hippolestes=horse pirate). He will go
a long way to kill a colt, and several supposed cases of a Cougar
attacking a man on horseback at night prove to have been attacks on the
horse, and in each case on discovering the man the Cougar had
decamped. This creature is also possessed of a strong curiosity and many times
is known to have followed a man in the woods merely to study the queer
creature, but without intent to do him harm. Nevertheless the timid
traveller who discovers he is "pursued by a Cougar" may manage to
persuade himself that he has had a hairbreadth escape. THE TIME I
MET A LION

A newspaper reporter asked me once for a story of terrible peril from
our wild animals, a time "when I nearly lost my life."

My answer was, "I never had such an experience. Danger from wild
animals is practically non-existent in America to-day."

"Did you never meet a Grizzly or a Mountain Lion?" he asked. "Yes, many Grizzlies, and one or two Lions.