I've had one look me over
while I slept," was the answer. And now the thrill-monger's face lighted up, he straightened his
paper and stuck his pencil in his mouth by way of getting ready, and
ejaculated: "Say! now you're getting it; let's hear the details. Don't
spare me!"

"It was back in September, 1899," I said. "My wife and I were camping
in the high Sierra near Mt. Tallac. At this season rain is unknown, so
we took no tent. Each of us had a comfortable rubber bed and we placed
these about a foot or two apart. In the narrow alley between we put a
waterproof canvas, and on that each night we laid the guns. "We had a couple of cowboys to look after the outfit. A fortnight had
gone by with sunny skies and calm autumn weather, when one evening it
began to blow. Black, lumpy clouds came up from the far-off sea; the
dust went whirling in little eddies, and when the sun went down it was
of a sickly yellowish. The horses were uneasy, throwing up
their noses, snorting softly and pricking their ears in a nervous
way. "Everything promised a storm in spite of the rule 'no rain in
September,' and we huddled into our tentless beds with such preparation
as we could make for rain. "As night wore on the windstorm raged, and one or two heavy drops
spattered down. Then there was a loud snort or two and a plunge of the
nearest horse, then quiet. "Next morning we found every horse gone, and halters and ropes
broken, while deep hoofprints showed the violence of the stampede which
we had scarcely heard. The men set out on foot after the horses, and by
good luck, recovered all within a mile. Meanwhile I made a careful study
of the ground, and soon got light. For there were the prints of a huge
Mountain Lion. He had prowled into camp, coming up to where we slept,
sneaked around and smelt us over, and–I think–walked down the alley
between our beds. After that, probably, he had got so close to the
horses that, inspired by terror of their most dreaded foe, they had
broken all bonds and stampeded into safety. Nevertheless, though the
horses were in danger, there can be no question, I think, that we were
not."

The reporter thought the situation more serious than I did, and
persisted that if I dug in my memory I should yet recall a really
perilous predicament, in which thanks to some wild brute, I was near
death's door. And as it proved he was right. I had nearly forgotten what
looked like a hairbreadth escape. IN PERIL
OF MY LIFE

It was on the same Sierra trip. Our outfit had been living for weeks
among the tall pines, subsisting on canned goods; and when at length we
came out on the meadows by Leaf Lake we found them enlivened by a small
herd of wild–that is, range-cattle. "My!" said one of the cowboys, "wouldn't a little fresh milk go fine
after all that ptomaine we've been feeding on?"

"There's plenty of it there; help yourself," said I. "I'd soon catch one if I knew which, and what to do when I got her,"
he answered. Then memories of boyhood days on the farm came over me and I said:
"I'll show you a cow in milk, and I'll milk her if you'll hold her."

"Agreed! Which is the one?"

I put my hands up to my mouth and let off a long
bleat like a calf in distress. The distant cattle threw up their heads
and began "sniffing." Another bleat and three cows separated from the
others; two ran like mad into the woods, the third kept throwing her
head this way and that, but not running. "That one," I said, "is your
cow. She's in milk and not too recently come in."

Milk Lady

Milk Lady

Then away went the cowboys to do their part. The herd scattered and
the cow tried to run, but the ponies sailed alongside, the lariats
whistled and in a flash she was held with one rope around her horns, the
other around one hind leg. "Now's your chance, Milk-lady!" they shouted at me, and forward I
went, pail in hand, to milk that snorting, straining, wild-eyed thing. She tried to hold her milk up, but I am an old hand at that work. She
never ceased trying to kick at me with her free hind leg, so I had to
watch the leg, and milk away. The high pitched "tsee tsee" had
gradually given place to the low "tsow tsow" of the two streams
cutting the foam when a peculiar smell grew stronger until it was
nothing less than a disgusting stench. For the first time I glanced down
at the milk in the pail, and there instead of a dimpled bank of snowy
foam was a great yeasty mass of yellowish brown streaked with blood. Hastily rising and backing off, I said: "I've got
plenty of milk now for you two. The rest of us don't care for any. Hold
on till I get back to the trees."

Then, when I was safely under cover, the boys turned the cow loose. Of course, her first impulse was revenge, but I was safe and those
mounted men knew how to handle a cow. She was glad to run off. "There's your milk," I said, and pointed to the pail I had left. Evidently that cow had been suffering from more than one milk malady. The boys upset the bloody milk right there, then took the pail to the
stream, where they washed it well, and back to camp, where we scalded it
out several times. THE
DANGEROUS NIGHT VISITOR

That night about sundown, just as we finished supper, there came from
the near prairie the mighty, portentous rumbling roar of a bull–the
bellow that he utters when he is roused to fight, the savage roar that
means "I smell blood." It is one of those tremendous menacing sounds
that never fail to give one the creeps and make one feel, oh! so puny
and helpless. We went quietly to the edge of the timber and there was the monster
at the place where that evil milk
was spilt, tearing up the ground with hoofs and horns, and uttering that
dreadful war-bellow. The cowboys mounted their ponies, and gave a good
demonstration of the power of brains in the ruling of brawn. They took
that bull at a gallop a mile or more away, they admonished him with some
hard licks of a knotted-rope and left him, then came back, and after a
while we all turned in for the night. Just as we were forgetting all things, the sweet silence of the camp
was again disturbed by that deep, vibrating organ tone, the chesty
roaring of the enraged bull; and we sprang up to see the huge brute
striding in the moonlight, coming right into camp, lured as before by
that sinister blood trail. The boys arose and again saddled the ready mounts. Again I heard the
thudding of heavy feet, the shouts of the riders, a few loud snorts,
followed by the silence; and when the boys came back in half an hour we
rolled up once more and speedily were asleep. To pass the night in peace! not at all. Near midnight my dreams were
mixed with earthquakes and thunder, and slowly I waked to feel that
ponderous bellow running along the ground, and setting my legs
a-quiver. "Row-ow-ow-ow" it came, and shook me into full wakefulness
to realize that that awful brute was back again. He could not resist the
glorious, alluring chance to come and get awfully mad over that "bluggy
milk." Now he was in camp, close at hand; the whole sky seemed blocked
out and the trees a-shiver as he came on. "Row-ow-ow-ow" he rumbled, also snorted softly as he came,
and before I knew it he walked down the narrow space between our beds
and the wagon. Had I jumped up and yelled, he, whether mad or scared,
might have trampled one or other of us. That is the bull of it; a horse
steps over. So I waited in trembling silence till that horrid
"Row-ow-ow-ow" went by. Then I arose and yelled with all my
power:

"Louie! Frank! Help! Here's the bull."

The boys were up before I had finished. The ready ponies were put in
commission in less than three minutes. Then came the stampede, the heavy
thudding, the loud whacks of the ropes, and when these sounds had died
in the distance, I heard the "pop, pop" of side arms. I asked no
questions, but when the boys came back and said, "well, you bet he won't
be here again," I believed them. XXXVIII. Sketch of the Bear Family as made on the spot By E. T. Seton

XXXVIII. Sketch of the Bear
Family as made on the spot
By E. T.