In the September of 1912 I went with a good guide and a party of
friends, to the region southeast of Yellowstone Lake. This is quite the
wildest part of the Park; it is the farthest possible from human
dwellings, and in it the animals are wild and quite unchanged by daily
association with man, as pensioners of the hotels. Our party was carefully selected, a lot of choice spirits, and yet
there was one with a sad and unpardonable weakness–he always snored a
dreadful snore as soon as he fell asleep. That is why he was usually put
in a tent by himself, and sent to sleep with a twenty-five foot
deadening space between him and us of gentler somnolence. He had been bad the night before, and now, by request, was sleeping
fifty feet away. But what is
fifty feet of midnight silence to a forty-inch chest and a pair of
tuneful nostrils. About 2 A.M. I was awakened as before, but worse than
ever, by the most terrific, measured snorts, and so loud that they
seemed just next me. Sitting up, I bawled in wrath, "Oh, Jack, shut up,
and let some one else have a chance to sleep."

The answer was a louder snort, a crashing of brush and a silence
that, so far as I know, continued until sunrise. Then I arose and learned that the snorts and the racket were made,
not by my friend, but by a huge Grizzly that had come prowling about the
camp, and had awakened me by snorting into my tent. But he had fled in fear at my yell; and this behaviour exactly shows
the attitude of the Grizzlies in the West to-day. They are afraid of
man, they fly at whiff or sound of him, and if in the Yellowstone you
run across a Grizzly that seems aggressive, rest assured he has been
taught such bad manners by association with our own species around the
hotels. THE
DIFFERENT KINDS OF BEARS

Some guides of unsound information will tell the traveller that there
are half a dozen different kinds of Bears in or near the Yellowstone
Park–Blackbear,
Little Cinnamon, Big Cinnamon, Grizzlies, Silver-tip, and Roach-backs. This is sure however, there are but two species, namely, the Blackbear
and the Grizzly. The Blackbear is known by its short front claws, flat profile and
black colour, with or without a tan-coloured muzzle. Sometimes in a
family of Blackbears there appears a red-headed youngster, just as with
ourselves; he is much like his brethren but "all over red complected" as
they say in Canada. This is known to hunters as a "Little Cinnamon."

The Grizzly is known by its great size, its long fore claws, its
hollow profile and its silver-sprinkled coat. Sometimes a Grizzly has an
excessive amount of silver; this makes a Silver-tip. Sometimes the
silver is nearly absent, in which case the Bear is called a "Big
Cinnamon." Sometimes the short mane over his humped shoulders is
exaggerated; this makes a "Roach-back." Any or all of these are to be
looked for in the Park, yet remember! they form only two species. All of
the Blackbear group are good climbers; none of the Grizzly group climb
after they are fully grown. BEAR-TREES

There is a curious habit of Bears that is well known without being
well understood; it is common to
all these mentioned. In travelling along some familiar trail they will
stop at a certain tree, claw it, tear it with their teeth, and rub their
back and head up against it as high as they can reach, even with the tip
of the snout, and standing on tiptoes. There can be no doubt that a Bear
coming to a tree can tell by scent whether another Bear has been there
recently, and whether that Bear is a male or female, a friend, a foe or
a stranger. Thus the tree serves as a sort of news depot; and there is
one every few hundred yards in country with a large Bear population. These trees, of course, abound in the Park. Any good guide will point
out some examples. In the country south of the Lake, I found them so
common that it seemed as if the Bears had made many of them for mere
sport. A PEEP
INTO BEAR FAMILY LIFE

When we went to the Yellowstone in 1897 to spend the season studying
wild animal life, we lived in a small shanty that stood near Yancey's,
and had many pleasant meetings with Antelope, Beaver, etc., but were
disappointed in not seeing any Bears. One of my reasons for coming was
the promise of "as many Bears as I liked." But some tracks on the trail
a mile away were the
only proofs that I found of Bears being in the region. One day General Young, then in charge of the Park, came to see how we
were getting along. And I told him that although I had been promised as
many Bears as I liked, and I had been there investigating for six weeks
already, I hadn't seen any. He replied, "You are not in the right place. Go over to the Fountain Hotel and there you will see as many Bears as
you wish." That was impossible, for there were not Bears enough in the
West to satisfy me, I thought. But I went at once to the Fountain Hotel
and without loss of time stepped out the back door. I had not gone fifty feet before I walked onto a big Blackbear with
her two roly-poly black cubs. The latter were having a boxing match,
while the mother sat by to see fair play. As soon as they saw me they
stopped their boxing, and as soon as I saw them I stopped walking. The
old Bear gave a peculiar "Koff koff," I suppose of warning, for
the young ones ran to a tree, and up that they shinned with alacrity
that amazed me. When safely aloft, they sat like small boys, holding on
with their hands, while their little black legs dangled in the air, and
waited to see what was to happen down below. The mother Bear, still on her hind legs, came slowly toward me, and I
began to feel very uncomfortable indeed, for she stood about six feet
high in her stocking feet, and I had not even a stick to defend myself
with. I began backing slowly toward the hotel, and by way of my best
defense, I turned on her all the power of my magnetic eye. We
have all of us heard of the wonderful power of the magnetic human eye. Yes, we have, but apparently this old Bear had not, for she
came on just the same. She gave a low woof, and I was about to abandon
all attempts at dignity, and run for the hotel; but just at this
turning-point the old Bear stopped, and gazed at me calmly. Then she faced about and waddled over to the tree, up which were the
cubs. Underneath she stood, looking first at me, then at her family. I
realized that she wasn't going to bother me, in fact she never seemed
very serious about it, so I plucked up courage. I remembered what I came
for and got down my camera. But when I glanced at the sky, and gauged
the light–near sundown in the woods–I knew the camera would not serve
me; so I got out my sketch book instead, and made the sketch which is
given on Plate XXXVIII; I have not changed it since. XLI. While I sketched the Bears a brother camera hunter was stalking me
without my knowledge Photo by F. Linde Ryan, Flushing, L.