T. Seton

Meanwhile the old Bear had been sizing me up, and evidently made up
her mind that, "although that human being might be all right, she would
take no chances for her little ones."

She looked up to her two hopefuls, and gave a peculiar whining
"Er-r-r er-r," whereupon, like obedient children, they jumped
as at the word of command. There was nothing about them heavy or
bear-like as commonly understood; lightly they swung from bough to bough
till they dropped to the ground, and all went off together into the
woods. I was much tickled by the prompt obedience of these little Bears. As
soon as their mother told them to do something they did it. They did not
even offer a suggestion. But I also found out that there was a good
reason back of it, for, had they not done as she had told them, they
would have got such a spanking as would have made them howl. Yes, it is
quite the usual thing, I find, for an old Blackbear to spank her little
ones when in her opinion they need it, and she lays it on well. She has
a good strong paw, and does not stop for their squealing; so that one
correction lasts a long time. This was a delightful peep into Bear home-life, and would have been
well worth coming for, if the insight had ended there. But my friends in
the hotel said that that was not the best place for Bears. I should go
to the garbage-heap, a quarter-mile off
in the forest. There, they said, I surely could see as many Bears as I
wished, which was absurd of them. THE DAY AT
THE GARBAGE PILE

Early next morning I equipped myself with pencils, paper and a
camera, and set out for the garbage pile. At first I watched from the
bushes, some seventy-five yards away, but later I made a hole in the
odorous pile itself, and stayed there all day long, sketching and
snapshotting the Bears which came and went in greater numbers as the day
was closing. A sample of my notes made on the spot will illustrate the continuity
of the Bear procession, yet I am told that there are far more of these
animals there to-day than at the time of my visit. Those readers who would follow my adventures in detail will find them
fully and exactly set forth in the story of Johnny Bear, which appears
in "Lives of the Hunted," so I shall not further enlarge on them here,
except to relate one part which was omitted, as it dealt with a
photographic experience. In the story I told how, backed by a mounted cowboy, I sat on the
garbage pile while the great
Grizzly that had worsted Old Grumpy, came striding nearer, and looming
larger. He had not quite forgotten the recent battle, his whole air was
menacing, and I had all the appropriate sensations as he approached. At
forty yards I snapped him, and again at twenty. Still he was coming, but
at fifteen feet he stopped and turned his head, giving me the side view
I wanted, and I snapped the camera again. The effect was startling. That
insolent, nagging little click brought the wrath of the Grizzly onto
myself. He turned on me with a savage growl. I was feeling just as I
should be feeling; wondering, indeed, if my last moment had not come,
but I found guidance in the old adage: "when you don't know a thing to
do, don't do a thing." For a minute or two the Grizzly glared, and I
remained still; then calmly ignoring me he set about his feast. All of this I tell in detail in my story. But there was one thing I
did not dare to do then; that was show the snaps I made. Surely it would be a wonderful evidence of my courage and coolness if
I could show a photograph of that big Grizzly when he was coming
on–maybe to kill me–I did not know, but I had a dim vision of my
sorrowing relatives developing the plate to see how it happened, for I
pressed the
button at the right time. The picture, such as it is, I give as Plate
XL, c. I was so calm and cool and collected that I quite forgot to focus
the camera. LONESOME
JOHNNY

During all this time Johnny had been bemoaning his sad lot, at the
top of the tree; there I left him, still lamenting. That was the last I
ever saw of him. In my story of Johnny Bear, I relate many other
adventures that were ascribed to him, but these were told me by the men
who lived in the Park, and knew the lame cub much better than I did. My
own acquaintance with him was all within the compass of the one day I
spent in the garbage-pile. It is worthy of note that although Johnny died that autumn, they have
had him every year ever since; and some years they have had two for the
satisfaction of visitors who have read up properly before coming to the
Park. Indeed, when I went back to the Fountain Hotel fifteen years
afterward, a little Bear came and whined under my window about dawn, and
the hotel folk assured me it was Little Johnny calling on his
creator. FURTHER
ANNALS OF THE SANCTUARY

All of this was fifteen years ago. Since then there have been some
interesting changes, but they are
in the line of growth. Thirteen Bears in view at one time was my highest
record, and that after sundown; but I am told that as many as twenty or
twenty-five Bears are now to be seen there at once in June and July,
when the wildwood foods are scarce. Most of them are Blackbears, but
there are always a few Grizzlies about. XLIII.