Clifford B. Harmon
feeding a Bear
Photo by E. T. Seton

In view of their reputation, their numbers and the gradual removal of
the restraining fear of men, one wonders whether these creatures are not
a serious menace to the human dwellers of the Park. The fundamental
peacefulness of the unhungry animal world is wonderfully brought out by
the groups of huge shaggy monsters about the hotels. At one time, and for long it was said, and truthfully, that the Bears
in the Park had never abused the confidence man had placed in them. But
one or two encounters have taken place to prove the exception. An enthusiastic camera-hunter, after hearing of my experiences at the
garbage pile, went there some years later, duly equipped to profit by
the opportunity. A large she Bear, with a couple of cubs appeared, but they hovered at
a distance and did not give the artist a fair chance. He waited a long
time, then
seeing that they would not come to him, he decided to go to them. Quitting that sheltering hole, he sneaked along; crouching low and
holding the camera ready, he rapidly approached the family group. When
the young ones saw this strange two-legged beast coming threateningly
near them, they took alarm and ran whining to their mother. All her
maternal wrath was aroused to see this smallish, two-legged, one-eyed
creature, evidently chasing her cubs to harm them. A less combination
than that would have made her take the war-path, and now she charged. She struck him but once; that was enough. His camera was wrecked, and
for two weeks afterward he was in the hospital, nursing three broken
ribs, as well as a body suffering from shock. There was another, an old Grizzly that became a nuisance about the
hotels, as he did not hesitate to walk into the kitchens and help
himself to food. Around the tents of campers he became a terror, as he
soon realized that these folk carried food, and white canvas walls
rising in the woods were merely invitations to a dinner ready and
waiting. It is not recorded that he hurt any one in his numerous raids
for food. But he stampeded horses and broke the camp equipments, as well
as pillaged many larders. One of my guides described a lively scene in which the Bear, in spite
of blazing brands, ran into the cook's quarters and secured a ham. The
cook pursued with a stick of firewood. At each whack the Bear let off a
"whoof" but he did not drop the ham, and the party had to return to Fort
Yellowstone for supplies. Incidents of this kind multiplied, and finally Buffalo Jones, who was
then the Chief Scout of the Park, was permitted to punish the old
sinner. Mounted on his trained saddle-horse, swinging the lasso that has
caught so many different kinds of beasts in so many different lands, the
Colonel gave chase. Old Grizzly dodged among the pines for a while, but
the pony was good to follow; and when the culprit took to open ground,
the unerring lasso whistled in the air and seized him by the hind paw. It takes a good rope to stand the jerk of half a ton of savage muscle,
but the rope was strong; it stood, and there was some pretty manÅ“uvring,
after which the lasso was found over a high branch, with a couple of
horses on the "Jones end" and they hauled the Bear aloft where, through
the medium of a stout club, he received a drubbing that has become
famous in the moving-picture world. Another of these big, spoiled babies was sent to
Washington Zoo, where he is now doing duty as an exhibition Grizzly. The comedy element is far from lacking in this life; in fact, it is
probably the dominant one. But the most grotesque story of all was told
me by a friend who chummed with the Bears about ten years ago. One day, it seems, a Blackbear more tame than usual went right into
the bar-room of one of the hotels. The timid floating population moved
out; the bar-keep was cornered, but somewhat protected by his bar; and
when the Bear reared up with both paws on the mahogany, the wily
"dispenser" pushed a glass of beer across, saying nervously, "Is that
what you are after?"

The Bear liked the smell of the offering, and, stooping down, lapped
up the whole glassful, and what was spilt he carefully licked up
afterward, to the unmeasured joy of the loafers who peeped in at doors
and windows, and jeered at the bar-keep and his new customer. "Say, bar-keep, who's to pay?" "Don't you draw any color line?" "If I
come in a fur coat, will you treat me?" "No! you got to scare him to
drink free," etc., etc., were examples of their remarks. Whatever that Bear came for, she seemed satisfied with
what she got, for she went off peaceably to the woods, and was seen
later lying asleep under a tree. Next day, however, she was back again. The scene in the bar-room was repeated with less intensity. On the third and fourth days she came as before, but on the fifth day
she seemed to want something else. Prompted by a kindred feeling, one of
the loafers suggested that "She wants another round." His guess was
right, and having got it, that abandoned old Bear began to reel, but she
was quite good-natured about it, and at length lay down under a table,
where her loud snores proclaimed to all that she was asleep–beastly
drunk, and asleep–just like one of the lords of creation. From that time on she became a habitual frequenter of the bar-room. Her potations were increased each month. There was a time when one glass
of beer made her happy, but now it takes three or four, and sometimes
even a little drop of something stronger. But whatever it is, it has the
desired effect, and "Swizzling Jinnie" lurches over to the table, under
which she sprawls at length, and tuning up her nasophone she sleeps
aloud, and unpeacefully, demonstrating to all the world that after all a
"Bear is jest a kind o' a man in a fur coat." Who can doubt it that
reads this tale, for it is true; at least it was told me for the truth,
by no less an authority than one of Jennie's intimate associates at the
bar-room. THE
GRIZZLY AND THE CAN

When one remembers the Grizzly Bear as the monarch of the mountains,
the king of the plains, and the one of matchless might and unquestioned
sway among the wild things of the West, it gives one a shock to think of
him being conquered and cowed by a little tin can. Yet he was, and this
is how it came about. A grand old Grizzly, that was among the summer retinue of a Park
hotel, was working with two claws to get out the very last morsel of
some exceptionally delicious canned stuff. The can was extra strong, its
ragged edges were turned in, and presently both toes of the Bear were
wedged firmly in the clutch of that impossible, horrid little tin trap. The monster shook his paw, and battered the enemy, but it was as sharp
within as it was smooth without, and it gripped his paw with the fell
clutch of a disease. His toes began to swell with all this effort and
violence, till they filled the inner space completely. The trouble was
made worse and the paw became painfully inflamed. All day long that old Grizzly was heard clumping around with that
dreadful little tin pot wedged on his foot. Sometimes there was a loud
succession of clamp, clamp, clamp's which told that the enraged
monarch with canned toes was venting his rage on some of the
neighbouring Blackbears. The next day and the next that shiny tin maintained its frightful
grip on the Grizzly, who, limping noisily around, was known and
recognized as "Can-foot." His comings and goings to and from the garbage
heap, by day and by night, were plainly announced to all by the clamp,
clamp, clamp of that maddening, galling tin. Some weeks went by and
still the implacable meat box held on. The officer in charge of the Park came riding by one day; he heard
the strange tale of trouble, and saw with his own eyes the limping
Grizzly, with his muzzled foot. At a wave of his hand two of the trusty
scouts of the Park patrol set out with their ponies and whistling
lassoes on the strangest errand that they, or any of their kind, had
ever known. In a few minutes those wonderful raw-hide ropes had seized
him and the monarch of the mountains was a prisoner bound. Strong shears
were at hand.