Certainly not by
sight. Before recognizing their mistake, they have to hold the object
between their legs and even to nibble at it a little. They are extremely
short-sighted. At a hand's-breadth's distance, the lifeless prey, unable
to shake the web, remains unperceived. Besides, in many cases, the
hunting takes place in the dense darkness of the night, when sight, even
if it were good, would not avail. If the eyes are insufficient guides, even close at hand, how will it
be when the prey has to be spied from afar! In that case, an
intelligence-apparatus for long-distance work becomes indispensable. We
have no difficulty in detecting the apparatus. Let us look attentively behind the web of any Epeira with a daytime
hiding-place: we shall see a thread that starts from the centre of the
network, ascends in a slanting line outside the plane of the web and
ends at the ambush where the Spider lurks all day. Except at the central
point, there is no connection between this thread and the rest of the
work, no interweaving with the scaffolding-threads. Free of impediment,
the line runs straight from the centre of the net to the ambush-tent. Its length averages twenty-two inches. The Angular Epeira, settled high
up in the trees, has shown me some as long as eight or nine feet. There is no doubt that this slanting line is a foot-bridge which
allows the Spider to repair hurriedly to the web, when summoned by
urgent business, and then, when her round is finished, to return to her
hut. In fact, it is the road which I see her follow, in going and
coming. But is that all? No; for, if the Epeira had no aim in view but a
means of rapid transit between her tent and the net, the foot-bridge
would be fastened to the upper edge of the web. The journey would be
shorter and the slope less steep. Why, moreover, does this line always start in the centre of the
sticky network and nowhere else? Because that is the point where the
spokes meet and, therefore, the common centre of vibration. Anything
that moves upon the web sets it shaking. All then that is needed is a
thread issuing from this central point to convey to a distance the news
of a prey struggling in some part or other of the net. The slanting
cord, extending outside the plane of the web, is more than a
foot-bridge: it is, above all, a signalling-apparatus, a
telegraph-wire. Let us try experiment. I place a Locust on the network. Caught in the
sticky toils, he plunges about. Forthwith, the Spider issues impetuously
from her hut, comes down the foot-bridge, makes a rush for the Locust,
wraps him up and operates on him according to rule. Soon after, she
hoists him, fastened by a line to her spinneret, and drags him to her
hiding-place, where a long banquet will be held. So far, nothing new:
things happen as usual. I leave the Spider to mind her own affairs for some days, before I
interfere with her. I again propose to give her a Locust; but, this
time, I first cut the signalling-thread with a touch of the scissors,
without shaking any part of the edifice. The game is then laid on the
web. Complete success: the entangled insect struggles, sets the net
quivering; the Spider, on her side, does not stir, as though heedless of
events. The idea might occur to one that, in this business, the Epeira stays
motionless in her cabin since she is prevented from hurrying down,
because the foot-bridge is broken. Let us undeceive ourselves: for one
road open to her there are a hundred, all ready to bring her to the
place where her presence is now required. The network is fastened to the
branches by a host of lines, all of them very easy to cross. Well, the
Epeira embarks upon none of them, but remains moveless and
self-absorbed. Why?