Because her telegraph, being out of order, no longer tells her
of the shaking of the web. The captured prey is too far off for her to
see it; she is all unwitting. A good hour passes, with the Locust still
kicking, the Spider impassive, myself watching. Nevertheless, in the
end, the Epeira wakes up: no longer feeling the signalling-thread,
broken by my scissors, as taut as usual under her legs, she comes to
look into the state of things. The web is reached, without the least
difficulty, by one of the lines of the framework, the first that offers. The Locust is then perceived and forthwith enswathed, after which the
signalling-thread is remade, taking the place of the one which I have
broken. Along this road the Spider goes home, dragging her prey behind
her. My neighbour, the mighty Angular Epeira, with her telegraph-wire nine
feet long, has even better things in store for me. One morning, I find
her web, which is now deserted, almost intact, a proof that the night's
hunting has not been good. The animal must be hungry. With a piece of
game for a bait, I hope to bring her down from her lofty retreat. I entangle in the web a rare morsel, a Dragon-fly, who struggles
desperately and sets the whole net a-shaking. The other, up above,
leaves her lurking-place amid the cypress-foliage, strides swiftly down
along her telegraph-wire, comes to the Dragon-fly, trusses her and at
once climbs home again by the same road, with her prize dangling at her
heels by a thread. The final sacrifice will take place in the quiet of
the leafy sanctuary. A few days later, I renew my experiment under the same conditions,
but, this time, I first cut the signalling-thread. In vain I select a
large Dragon-fly, a very restless prisoner; in vain I exert my patience:
the Spider does not come down all day. Her telegraph being broken, she
receives no notice of what is happening nine feet below. The entangled
morsel remains where it lies, not despised, but unknown. At nightfall,
the Epeira leaves her cabin, passes over the ruins of her web, finds the
Dragon-fly and eats her on the spot, after which the net is renewed. One of the Epeirae whom I have had the opportunity of examining
simplifies the system, while retaining the essential mechanism of a
transmission-thread. This is the Crater Epeira (Epeira cratera,
WALCK.), a species seen in spring, at which time she indulges especially
in the chase of the Domestic Bee, upon the flowering rosemaries. At the
leafy end of a branch, she builds a sort of silken shell, the shape and
size of an acorn-cup. This is where she sits, with her paunch contained
in the round cavity and her forelegs resting on the ledge, ready to
leap. The lazy creature loves this position and rarely stations herself
head downwards on the web, as do the others. Cosily ensconced in the
hollow of her cup, she awaits the approaching game. Her web, which is vertical, as is the rule among the Epeirae, is of a
fair size and always very near the bowl wherein the Spider takes her
ease. Moreover, it touches the bowl by means of an angular extension;
and the angle always contains one spoke which the Epeira, seated, so to
speak, in her crater, has constantly under her legs. This spoke,
springing from the common focus of the vibrations from all parts of the
network, is eminently fitted to keep the Spider informed of whatsoever
happens. It has a double office: it forms part of the Catherine-wheel
supporting the lime-threads and it warns the Epeira by its vibrations. A
special thread is here superfluous. The other snarers, on the contrary, who occupy a distant retreat by
day, cannot do without a private wire that keeps them in permanent
communication with the deserted web. All of them have one, in point of
fact, but only when age comes, age prone to rest and to long slumbers. In their youth, the Epeirae, who are then very wide-awake, know nothing
of the art of telegraphy. Besides, their web, a short-lived work whereof
hardly a trace remains on the morrow, does not allow of this kind of
industry. It is no use going to the expense of a signalling-apparatus
for a ruined snare wherein nothing can now be caught. Only the old
Spiders, meditating or dozing in their green tent, are warned from afar,
by telegraph, of what takes place on the web. To save herself from keeping a close watch that would degenerate into
drudgery and to remain alive to events even when resting, with her back
turned on the net, the ambushed Spider always has her foot upon the
telegraph-wire. Of my observations on this subject, let me relate the
following, which will be sufficient for our purpose. An Angular Epeira, with a remarkably fine belly, has spun her web
between two laurestine-shrubs, covering a width of nearly a yard. The
sun beats upon the snare, which is abandoned long before dawn. The
Spider is in her day manor, a resort easily discovered by following the
telegraph-wire. It is a vaulted chamber of dead leaves, joined together
with a few bits of silk. The refuge is deep: the Spider disappears in it
entirely, all but her rounded hind-quarters, which bar the entrance to
the donjon. With her front half plunged into the back of her hut, the Epeira
certainly cannot see her web. Even if she had good sight, instead of
being purblind, her position could not possibly allow her to keep the
prey in view. Does she give up hunting during this period, of bright
sunlight? Not at all.