Wonderful! One of her hind-legs is stretched outside the leafy cabin;
and the signalling-thread ends just at the tip of that leg. Whoso has
not seen the Epeira in this attitude, with her hand, so to speak, on the
telegraph-receiver, knows nothing of one of the most curious instances
of animal cleverness. Let any game appear upon the scene; and the
slumberer, forthwith aroused by means of the leg receiving the
vibrations, hastens up. A Locust whom I myself lay on the web procures
her this agreeable shock and what follows. If she is satisfied with her
bag, I am still more satisfied with what I have learnt. The occasion is too good not to find out, under better conditions as
regards approach, what the inhabitant of the cypress-trees has already
shown me. The next morning, I cut the telegraph-wire, this time as long
as one's arm and held, like yesterday, by one of the hind-legs stretched
outside the cabin. I then place on the web a double prey, a Dragon-fly
and a Locust. The latter kicks out with his long, spurred shanks; the
other flutters her wings. The web is tossed about to such an extent that
a number of leaves, just beside the Epeira's nest, move, shaken by the
threads of the framework affixed to them. And this vibration, though so close at hand, does not rouse the
Spider in the least, does not make her even turn round to enquire what
is going on. The moment that her signalling-thread ceases to work, she
knows nothing of passing events. All day long, she remains without
stirring. In the evening, at eight o'clock, she sallies forth to weave
the new web and at last finds the rich windfall whereof she was hitherto
unaware. One word more. The web is often shaken by the wind. The different
parts of the framework, tossed and teased by the eddying air-currents,
cannot fail to transmit their vibration to the signalling-thread. Nevertheless, the Spider does not quit her hut and remains indifferent
to the commotion prevailing in the net. Her line, therefore, is
something better than a bell-rope that pulls and communicates the
impulse given: it is a telephone capable, like our own, of transmitting
infinitesimal waves of sound. Clutching her telephone-wire with a toe,
the Spider listens with her leg; she perceives the innermost vibrations;
she distinguishes between the vibration proceeding from a prisoner and
the mere shaking caused by the wind. CHAPTER
XIII: THE GARDEN SPIDERS: PAIRING AND HUNTING

Notwithstanding the importance of the subject, I shall not enlarge
upon the nuptials of the Epeirae, grim natures whose loves easily turn
to tragedy in the mystery of the night. I have but once been present at
the pairing and for this curious experience I must thank my lucky star
and my fat neighbour, the Angular Epeira, whom I visit so often by
lantern-light. Here you have it.