They are, but not without caution. The game is seen to be perilous of
approach and the Spider turns her back upon it, instead of facing it;
she trains her rope-cannon upon it. Quickly, the hind-legs draw from the
spinnerets something much better than single cords. The whole
silk-battery works at one and the same time, firing a regular volley of
ribbons and sheets, which a wide movement of the legs spreads fan-wise
and flings over the entangled prisoner. Guarding against sudden starts,
the Epeira casts her armfuls of bands on the front-and hind-parts, over
the legs and over the wings, here, there and everywhere, extravagantly. The most fiery prey is promptly mastered under this avalanche. In vain,
the Mantis tries to open her saw-toothed arm-guards; in vain, the Hornet
makes play with her dagger; in vain, the Beetle stiffens his legs and
arches his back: a fresh wave of threads swoops down and paralyses every
effort. These lavished, far-flung ribbons threaten to exhaust the factory; it
would be much more economical to resort to the method of the spool; but,
to turn the machine, the Spider would have to go up to it and work it
with her leg. This is too risky; and hence the continuous spray of silk,
at a safe distance. When all is used up, there is more to come. Still, the Epeira seems concerned at this excessive outlay. When
circumstances permit, she gladly returns to the mechanism of the
revolving spool. I saw her practise this abrupt change of tactics on a
big Beetle, with a smooth, plump body, which lent itself admirably to
the rotary process. After depriving the beast of all power of movement,
she went up to it and turned her corpulent victim as she would have done
with a medium-sized Moth. But with the Praying Mantis, sticking out her long legs and her
spreading wings, rotation is no longer feasible. Then, until the quarry
is thoroughly subdued, the spray of bandages goes on continuously, even
to the point of drying up the silk-glands. A capture of this kind is
ruinous. It is true that, except when I interfered, I have never seen
the Spider tackle that formidable provender. Be it feeble or strong, the game is now neatly trussed, by one of the
two methods. The next move never varies. The bound insect is bitten,
without persistency and without any wound that shows. The Spider next
retires and allows the bite to act, which it soon does. She then
returns. If the victim be small, a Clothes-moth, for instance, it is consumed
on the spot, at the place where it was captured. But, for a prize of
some importance, on which she hopes to feast for many an hour, sometimes
for many a day, the Spider needs a sequestered dining-room, where there
is naught to fear from the stickiness of the network. Before going to
it, she first makes her prey turn in the converse direction to that of
the original rotation. Her object is to free the nearest spokes, which
supplied pivots for the machinery. They are essential factors which it
behoves her to keep intact, if need be by sacrificing a few
cross-bars. It is done; the twisted ends are put back into position. The
well-trussed game is at last removed from the web and fastened on behind
with a thread. The Spider then marches in front and the load is trundled
across the web and hoisted to the resting-floor, which is both an
inspection-post and a dining-hall. When the Spider is of a species that
shuns the light and possesses a telegraph-line, she mounts to her
daytime hiding-place along this line, with the game bumping against her
heels. While she is refreshing herself, let us enquire into the effects of
the little bite previously administered to the silk-swathed captive. Does the Spider kill the patient with a view to avoiding unseasonable
jerks, protests so disagreeable at dinner-time? Several reasons make me
doubt it.