The heavy paunch and the hind-legs are now bound. The flow
slackens, the silk comes only in thin sheets. Fortunately, the business
is done. The prey is invisible under the thick shroud. The Spider retires without giving a bite. To master the terrible
quarry, she has spent the whole reserves of her spinning-mill, enough to
weave many good-sized webs. With this heap of shackles, further
precautions are superfluous. After a short rest in the centre of the net, she comes down to
dinner. Slight incisions are made in different parts of the prize, now
here, now there; and the Spider puts her mouth to each and sucks the
blood of her prey. The meal is long protracted, so rich is the dish. For
ten hours, I watch the insatiable glutton, who changes her point of
attack as each wound sucked dries up. Night comes and robs me of the
finish of the unbridled debauch. Next morning, the drained Mantis lies
upon the ground. The Ants are eagerly devouring the remains. The eminent talents of the Epeirae are displayed to even better
purpose in the industrial business of motherhood than in the art of the
chase. The silk bag, the nest, in which the Banded Epeira houses her
eggs, is a much greater marvel than the bird's nest. In shape, it is an
inverted balloon, nearly the size of a Pigeon's egg. The top tapers like
a pear and is cut short and crowned with a scalloped rim, the corners of
which are lengthened by means of moorings that fasten the object to the
adjoining twigs. The whole, a graceful ovoid, hangs straight down, amid
a few threads that steady it. The top is hollowed into a crater closed with a silky padding. Every
other part is contained in the general wrapper, formed of thick, compact
white satin, difficult to break and impervious to moisture. Brown and
even black silk, laid out in abroad ribbons, in spindle-shaped patterns,
in fanciful meridian waves, adorns the upper portion of the exterior. The part played by this fabric is self-evident: it is a waterproof cover
which neither dew nor rain can penetrate. Exposed to all the inclemencies of the weather, among the dead
grasses, close to the ground, the Epeira's nest has also to protect its
contents from the winter cold. Let us cut the wrapper with our scissors. Underneath, we find a thick layer of reddish-brown silk, not worked into
a fabric this time, but puffed into an extra-fine wadding. It is a
fleecy cloud, an incomparable quilt, softer than any swan's-down. This
is the screen set up against loss of heat. And what does this cosy mass protect? See: in the middle of the
eiderdown hangs a cylindrical pocket, round at the bottom, cut square at
the top and closed with a padded lid. It is made of extremely fine
satin; it contains the Epeira's eggs, pretty little orange-coloured
beads, which, glued together, form a globule the size of a pea. This is
the treasure to be defended against the asperities of the winter. Now that we know the structure of the work, let us try to see in what
manner the spinstress sets about it. The observation is not an easy one,
for the Banded Epeira is a night-worker. She needs nocturnal quiet in
order not to go astray amid the complicated rules that guide her
industry. Now and again, at very early hours in the morning, I have
happened to catch her working, which enables me to sum up the progress
of the operations. My subjects are busy in their bell-shaped cages, at about the middle
of August. A scaffolding is first run up, at the top of the dome; it
consists of a few stretched threads. The wire trellis represents the
twigs and the blades of grass which the Spider, if at liberty, would
have used as suspension-points. The loom works on this shaky support. The Epeira does not see what she is doing; she turns her back on her
task. The machinery is so well put together that the whole thing goes
automatically. The tip of the abdomen sways, a little to the right, a little to the
left, rises and falls, while the Spider moves slowly round and round. The thread paid out is single.