My skin does not suit them. If I persuaded them to
bite me, what would happen to me? Hardly anything. We have more cause to
dread the sting of a nettle than the dagger which is fatal to
Dragon-flies. The same virus acts differently upon this organism and
that, is formidable here and quite mild there. What kills the insect may
easily be harmless to us. Let us not, however, generalize too far. The
Narbonne Lycosa, that other enthusiastic insect-huntress, would make us
pay clearly if we attempted to take liberties with her. It is not uninteresting to watch the Epeira at dinner. I light upon
one, the Banded Epeira, at the moment, about three o'clock in the
afternoon, when she has captured a Locust. Planted in the centre of the
web, on her resting-floor, she attacks the venison at the joint of a
haunch. There is no movement, not even of the mouth-parts, as far as I
am able to discover. The mouth lingers, close-applied, at the point
originally bitten. There are no intermittent mouthfuls, with the
mandibles moving backwards and forwards. It is a sort of continuous
kiss. I visit my Epeira at intervals. The mouth does not change its place. I visit her for the last time at nine o'clock in the evening. Matters
stand exactly as they did: after six hours' consumption, the mouth is
still sucking at the lower end of the right haunch. The fluid contents
of the victim are transferred to the ogress' belly, I know not how. Next morning, the Spider is still at table. I take away her dish. Naught remains of the Locust but his skin, hardly altered in shape, but
utterly drained and perforated in several places. The method, therefore,
was changed during the night. To extract the non-fluent residue, the
viscera and muscles, the stiff cuticle had to be tapped here, there and
elsewhere, after which the tattered husk, placed bodily in the press of
the mandibles, would have been chewed, rechewed and finally reduced to a
pill, which the sated Spider throws up. This would have been the end of
the victim, had I not taken it away before the time. Whether she wound or kill, the Epeira bites her captive somewhere or
other, no matter where. This is an excellent method on her part, because
of the variety of the game that comes her way. I see her accepting with
equal readiness whatever chance may send her: Butterflies and
Dragon-flies, Flies and Wasps, small Dung-beetles and Locusts. If I
offer her a Mantis, a Bumble-bee, an Anoxia–the equivalent of the common
Cockchafer–and other dishes probably unknown to her race, she accepts
all and any, large and small, thin-skinned and horny-skinned, that which
goes afoot and that which takes winged flight. She is omnivorous, she
preys on everything, down to her own kind, should the occasion
offer. Had she to operate according to individual structure, she would need
an anatomical dictionary; and instinct is essentially unfamiliar with
generalities: its knowledge is always confined to limited points. The
Cerceres know their Weevils and their Buprestis-beetles absolutely; the
Sphex their Grasshoppers, their Crickets and their Locusts; the Scoliae
{34} their Cetonia- and Oryctes-grubs. Even so
the other paralyzers. Each has her own victim and knows nothing of any
of the others. The same exclusive tastes prevail among the slayers. Let us remember,
in this connection, Philanthus apivorus {35} and, especially, the Thomisus, the comely
Spider who cuts Bees' throats. They understand the fatal blow, either in
the neck or under the chin, a thing which the Epeira does not
understand; but, just because of this talent, they are specialists. Their province is the Domestic Bee. Animals are a little like ourselves: they excel in an art only on
condition of specializing in it. The Epeira, who, being omnivorous, is
obliged to generalize, abandons scientific methods and makes up for this
by distilling a poison capable of producing torpor and even death, no
matter what the point attacked. Recognizing the large variety of game, we wonder how the Epeira
manages not to hesitate amid those many diverse forms, how, for
instance, she passes from the Locust to the Butterfly, so different in
appearance. To attribute to her as a guide an extensive zoological
knowledge were wildly in excess of what we may reasonably expect of her
poor intelligence. The thing moves, therefore it is worth catching: this
formula seems to sum up the Spider's wisdom. CHAPTER
XIV: THE GARDEN SPIDERS: THE QUESTION OF PROPERTY

A dog has found a bone. He lies in the shade, holding it between his
paws, and studies it fondly. It is his sacred property, his chattel. An
Epeira has woven her web. Here again is property; and owning a better
title than the other. Favoured by chance and assisted by his scent, the
Dog has merely had a find; he has neither worked nor paid for it. The
Spider is more than a casual owner, she has created what is hers. Its
substance issued from her body, its structure from her brain.