If ever
property was sacrosanct, hers is. Far higher stands the work of the weaver of ideas, who tissues a
book, that other Spider's web, and out of his thought makes something
that shall instruct or thrill us. To protect our ˜bone,' we have the
police, invented for the express purpose. To protect the book, we have
none but farcical means. Place a few bricks one atop the other; join
them with mortar; and the law will defend your wall. Build up in writing
an edifice of your thoughts; and it will be open to any one, without
serious impediment, to abstract stones from it, even to take the whole,
if it suit him. A rabbit-hutch is property; the work of the mind is not. If the animal has eccentric views as regards the possessions of others,
we have ours as well. ˜Might always has the best of the argument,' said La Fontaine, to the
great scandal of the peace-lovers. The exigencies of verse, rhyme and
rhythm, carried the worthy fabulist further than he intended: he meant
to say that, in a fight between mastiffs and in other brute conflicts,
the stronger is left master of the bone. He well knew that, as things
go, success is no certificate of excellence. Others came, the notorious
evil-doers of humanity, who made a law of the savage maxim that might is
right. We are the larvae with the changing skins, the ugly caterpillars of a
society that is slowly, very slowly, wending its way to the triumph of
right over might. When will this sublime metamorphosis be accomplished? To free ourselves from those wild-beast brutalities, must we wait for
the ocean-plains of the southern hemisphere to flow to our side,
changing the face of continents and renewing the glacial period of the
Reindeer and the Mammoth? Perhaps, so slow is moral progress. True, we have the bicycle, the motor-car, the dirigible airship and
other marvellous means of breaking our bones; but our morality is not
one rung the higher for it all. One would even say that, the farther we
proceed in our conquest of matter, the more our morality recedes. The
most advanced of our inventions consists in bringing men down with
grapeshot and explosives with the swiftness of the reaper mowing the
corn. Would we see this might triumphant in all its beauty? Let us spend a
few weeks in the Epeira's company. She is the owner of a web, her work,
her most lawful property. The question at once presents itself: Does the
Spider possibly recognize her fabric by certain trademarks and
distinguish it from that of her fellows? I bring about a change of webs between two neighbouring Banded
Epeirae. No sooner is either placed upon the strange net than she makes
for the central floor, settles herself head downwards and does not stir
from it, satisfied with her neighbour's web as with her own. Neither by
day nor by night does she try to shift her quarters and restore matters
to their pristine state. Both Spiders think themselves in their own
domain. The two pieces of work are so much alike that I almost expected
this. I then decide to effect an exchange of webs between two different
species. I move the Banded Epeira to the net of the Silky Epeira and
vice versa. The two webs are now dissimilar; the Silky Epeira's has a
limy spiral consisting of closer and more numerous circles. What will
the Spiders do, when thus put to the test of the unknown? One would
think that, when one of them found meshes too wide for her under her
feet, the other meshes too narrow, they would be frightened by this
sudden change and decamp in terror. Not at all.