Man did the same in days of old: he stripped
and ate his fellows. We continue to rob one another, both as nations and
as individuals; but we no longer eat one another: the custom has grown
obsolete since we discovered an acceptable substitute in the
mutton-chop. Let us not, however, blacken the Spider beyond her deserts. She does
not live by warring on her kith and kin; she does not of her own accord
attempt the conquest of another's property. It needs extraordinary
circumstances to rouse her to these villainies. I take her from her web
and place her on another's. From that moment, she knows no distinction
between meum and tuum: the thing which the leg touches
at once becomes real estate. And the intruder, if she be the stronger,
ends by eating the occupier, a radical means of cutting short
disputes. Apart from disturbances similar to those provoked by myself,
disturbances that are possible in the everlasting conflict of events,
the Spider, jealous of her own web, seems to respect the webs of others. She never indulges in brigandage against her fellows except when
dispossessed of her net, especially in the daytime, for weaving is never
done by day: this work is reserved for the night. When, however, she is
deprived of her livelihood and feels herself the stronger, then she
attacks her neighbour, rips her open, feeds on her and takes possession
of her goods. Let us make allowances and proceed. We will now examine Spiders of more alien habits. The Banded and the
Silky Epeira differ greatly in form and colouring. The first has a
plump, olive-shaped belly, richly belted with white, bright-yellow and
black; the second's abdomen is flat, of a silky white and pinked into
festoons. Judging only by dress and figure, we should not think of
closely connecting the two Spiders. But high above shapes tower tendencies, those main characteristics
which our methods of classification, so particular about minute details
of form, ought to consult more widely than they do. The two dissimilar
Spiders have exactly similar ways of living. Both of them prefer to hunt
by day and never leave their webs; both sign their work with a zigzag
flourish. Their nets are almost identical, so much so that the Banded
Epeira uses the Silky Epeira's web after eating its owner. The Silky
Epeira, on her side, when she is the stronger, dispossesses her belted
cousin and devours her. Each is at home on the other's web, when the
argument of might triumphant has ended the discussion. Let us next take the case of the Cross Spider, a hairy beast of
varying shades of reddish-brown. She has three large white spots upon
her back, forming a triple-barred cross. She hunts mostly at night,
shuns the sun and lives by day on the adjacent shrubs, in a shady
retreat which communicates with the lime-snare by means of a
telegraph-wire. Her web is very similar in structure and appearance to
those of the two others. What will happen if I procure her the visit of
a Banded Epeira? The lady of the triple cross is invaded by day, in the full light of
the sun, thanks to my mischievous intermediary. The web is deserted; the
proprietress is in her leafy hut. The telegraph-wire performs its
office; the Cross Spider hastens down, strides all round her property,
beholds the danger and hurriedly returns to her hiding-place, without
taking any measures against the intruder. The latter, on her side, does not seem to be enjoying herself. Were
she placed on the web of one of her sisters, or even on that of the
Silky Epeira, she would have posted herself in the centre, as soon as
the struggle had ended in the other's death. This time there is no
struggle, for the web is deserted; nothing prevents her from taking her
position in the centre, the chief strategic point; and yet she does not
move from the place where I put her. I tickle her gently with the tip of a long straw. When at home, if
teased in this way, the Banded Epeira–like the others, for that
matter–violently shakes the web to intimidate the aggressor. This time,
nothing happens: despite my repeated enticements, the Spider does not
stir a limb. It is as though she were numbed with terror.