And she has
reason to be: the other is watching her from her lofty loop-hole. This is probably not the only cause of her fright. When my straw does
induce her to take a few steps, I see her lift her legs with some
difficulty. She tugs a bit, drags her tarsi till she almost breaks the
supporting threads. It is not the progress of an agile rope-walker; it
is the hesitating gait of entangled feet. Perhaps the lime-threads are
stickier than in her own web. The glue is of a different quality; and
her sandals are not greased to the extent which the new degree of
adhesiveness would demand. Anyhow, things remain as they are for long hours on end: the Banded
Epeira motionless on the edge of the web; the other lurking in her hut;
both apparently most uneasy. At sunset, the lover of darkness plucks up
courage. She descends from her green tent and, without troubling about
the stranger, goes straight to the centre of the web, where the
telegraph-wire brings her. Panic-stricken at this apparition, the Banded
Epeira releases herself with a jerk and disappears in the
rosemary-thicket. The experiment, though repeatedly renewed with different subjects,
gave me no other results. Distrustful of a web dissimilar to her own, if
not in structure, at least in stickiness, the bold Banded Epeira shows
the white feather and refuses to attack the Cross Spider. The latter, on
her side, either does not budge from her day shelter in the foliage, or
else rushes back to it, after taking a hurried glance at the stranger. She here awaits the coming of the night. Under favour of the darkness,
which gives her fresh courage and activity, she reappears upon the scene
and puts the intruder to flight by her mere presence, aided, if need be,
by a cuff or two. Injured right is the victor. Morality is satisfied; but let us not congratulate the Spider
therefore. If the invader respects the invaded, it is because very
serious reasons impel her. First, she would have to contend with an
adversary ensconced in a stronghold whose ambushes are unknown to the
assailant. Secondly, the web, if conquered, would be inconvenient to
use, because of the lime-threads, possessing a different degree of
stickiness from those which she knows so well. To risk one's skin for a
thing of doubtful value were twice foolish. The Spider knows this and
forbears. But let the Banded Epeira, deprived of her web, come upon that of one
of her kind or of the Silky Epeira, who works her gummy twine in the
same manner: then discretion is thrown to the winds; the owner is
fiercely ripped open and possession taken of the property. Might is right, says the beast; or, rather, it knows no right. The
animal world is a rout of appetites, acknowledging no other rein than
impotence. Mankind, alone capable of emerging from the slough of the
instincts, is bringing equity into being, is creating it slowly as its
conception grows clearer. Out of the sacred rushlight, so flickering as
yet, but gaining strength from age to age, man will make a flaming torch
that will put an end, among us, to the principles of the brutes and, one
day, utterly change the face of society. CHAPTER XV:
THE LABYRINTH SPIDER

While the Epeirae, with their gorgeous net-tapestries, are
incomparable weavers, many other Spiders excel in ingenious devices for
filling their stomachs and leaving a lineage behind them: the two
primary laws of living things. Some of them are celebrities of
long-standing renown, who are mentioned in all the books. Certain Mygales {36} inhabit a burrow, like the Narbonne Lycosa,
but of a perfection unknown to the brutal Spider of the waste-lands. The
Lycosa surrounds the mouth of her shaft with a simple parapet, a mere
collection of tiny pebbles, sticks and silk; the others fix a movable
door to theirs, a round shutter with a hinge, a groove and a set of
bolts. When the Mygale comes home, the lid drops into the groove and
fits so exactly that there is no possibility of distinguishing the join. If the aggressor persist and seek to raise the trap-door, the recluse
pushes the bolt, that is to say, plants her claws into certain holes on
the opposite side to the hinge, props herself against the wall and holds
the door firmly. Another, the Argyroneta, or Water Spider, builds herself an elegant
silken diving-bell, in which she stores air. Thus supplied with the
wherewithal to breathe, she awaits the coming of the game and keeps
herself cool meanwhile. At times of scorching heat, hers must be a
regular sybaritic abode, such as eccentric man has sometimes ventured to
build under water, with mighty blocks of stone and marble. The submarine
palaces of Tiberius are no more than an odious memory; the Water
Spider's dainty cupola still flourishes. If I possessed documents derived from personal observation, I should
like to speak of these ingenious workers; I would gladly add a few
unpublished facts to their life-history. But I must abandon the idea. The Water Spider is not found in my district. The Mygale, the expert in
hinged doors, is found there, but very seldom.