The expedition promises to be fruitful. We soon discover high silk buildings, betrayed at a distance by the
glittering threads which the dawn has converted into dewy rosaries. The
children are wonderstruck at those glorious chandeliers, so much so that
they forget their oranges for a moment. Nor am I, on my part,
indifferent. A splendid spectacle indeed is that of our Spider's
labyrinth, heavy with the tears of the night and lit up by the first
rays of the sun. Accompanied as it is by the Thrushes' symphony, this
alone is worth getting up for. Half an hour's heat; and the magic jewels disappear with the dew. Now
is the moment to inspect the webs. Here is one spreading its sheet over
a large cluster of rock-roses; it is the size of a handkerchief. A
profusion of guy-ropes, attached to any chance projection, moor it to
the brushwood. There is not a twig but supplies a contact-point. Entwined on every side, surrounded and surmounted, the bush disappears
from view, veiled in white muslin. The web is flat at the edges, as far as the unevenness of the support
permits, and gradually hollows into a crater, not unlike the bell of a
hunting-horn. The central portion is a cone-shaped gulf, a funnel whose
neck, narrowing by degrees, dives perpendicularly into the leafy thicket
to a depth of eight or nine inches. At the entrance to the tube, in the gloom of that murderous alley,
sits the Spider, who looks at us and betrays no great excitement at our
presence. She is grey, modestly adorned on the thorax with two black
ribbons and on the abdomen with two stripes in which white specks
alternate with brown. At the tip of the belly, two small, mobile
appendages form a sort of tail, a rather curious feature in a
Spider. The crater-shaped web is not of the same structure throughout. At the
borders, it is a gossamer weft of sparse threads; nearer the centre, the
texture becomes first fine muslin and then satin; lower still, on the
narrower part of the opening, it is a network of roughly lozenged
meshes. Lastly, the neck of the funnel, the usual resting-place, is
formed of solid silk. The Spider never ceases working at her carpet, which represents her
investigation-platform. Every night she goes to it, walks over it,
inspecting her snares, extending her domain and increasing it with new
threads. The work is done with the silk constantly hanging from the
spinnerets and constantly extracted as the animal moves about. The neck
of the funnel, being more often walked upon than the rest of the
dwelling, is therefore provided with a thicker upholstery. Beyond it are
the slopes of the crater, which are also much-frequented regions. Spokes
of some regularity fix the diameter of the mouth; a swaying walk and the
guiding aid of the caudal appendages have laid lozengy meshes across
these spokes. This part has been strengthened by the nightly rounds of
inspection. Lastly come the less-visited expanses, which consequently
have a thinner carpet. At the bottom of the passage dipping into the brushwood, we might
expect to find a secret cabin, a wadded cell where the Spider would take
refuge in her hours of leisure. The reality is something entirely
different. The long funnel-neck gapes at its lower end, where a private
door stands always ajar, allowing the animal, when hard-pushed, to
escape through the grass and gain the open. It is well to know this arrangement of the home, if you wish to
capture the Spider without hurting her. When attacked from the front,
the fugitive runs down and slips through the postern-gate at the bottom. To look for her by rummaging in the brushwood often leads to nothing, so
swift is her flight; besides, a blind search entails a great risk of
maiming her. Let us eschew violence, which is but seldom successful, and
resort to craft. We catch sight of the Spider at the entrance to her tube. If
practicable, squeeze the bottom of the tuft, containing the neck of the
funnel, with both hands. That is enough; the animal is caught. Feeling
its retreat cut off, it readily darts into the paper bag held out to it;
if necessary, it can be stimulated with a bit of straw. In this way, I
fill my cages with subjects that have not been demoralized by
contusions. The surface of the crater is not exactly a snare. It is just possible
for the casual pedestrian to catch his legs in the silky carpets; but
giddy-pates who come here for a walk must be very rare. What is wanted
is a trap capable of securing the game that hops or flies. The Epeira
has her treacherous limed net; the Spider of the bushes has her no less
treacherous labyrinth. Look above the web.