What a forest of ropes! It might be the rigging
of a ship disabled by a storm. They run from every twig of the
supporting shrubs, they are fastened to the tip of every branch. There
are long ropes and short ropes, upright and slanting, straight and bent,
taut and slack, all criss-cross and a-tangle, to the height of three
feet or so in inextricable disorder. The whole forms a chaos of netting,
a labyrinth which none can pass through, unless he be endowed with wings
of exceptional power. We have here nothing similar to the lime-threads used by the Garden
Spiders. The threads are not sticky; they act only by their confused
multitude. Would you care to see the trap at work? Throw a small Locust
into the rigging. Unable to obtain a steady foothold on that shaky
support, he flounders about; and the more he struggles the more he
entangles his shackles. The Spider, spying on the threshold of her
abyss, lets him have his way. She does not run up the shrouds of the
mast-work to seize the desperate prisoner; she waits until his bonds of
threads, twisted backwards and forwards, make him fall on the web. He falls; the other comes and flings herself upon her prostrate prey. The attack is not without danger. The Locust is demoralized rather than
tied up; it is merely bits of broken thread that he is trailing from his
legs. The bold assailant does not mind. Without troubling, like the
Epeirae, to bury her capture under a paralysing winding-sheet, she feels
it, to make sure of its quality, and then, regardless of kicks, inserts
her fangs. The bite is usually given at the lower end of a haunch: not that this
place is more vulnerable than any other thin-skinned part, but probably
because it has a better flavour. The different webs which I inspect to
study the food in the larder show me, among other joints, various Flies
and small Butterflies and carcasses of almost-untouched Locusts, all
deprived of their hind-legs, or at least of one. Locusts' legs often
dangle, emptied of their succulent contents, on the edges of the web,
from the meat-hooks of the butcher's shop. In my urchin-days, days free
from prejudices in regard to what one ate, I, like many others, was able
to appreciate that dainty. It is the equivalent, on a very small scale,
of the larger legs of the Crayfish. The rigging-builder, therefore, to whom we have just thrown a Locust
attacks the prey at the lower end of a thigh. The bite is a lingering
one: once the Spider has planted her fangs, she does not let go. She
drinks, she sips, she sucks. When this first point is drained, she
passes on to others, to the second haunch in particular, until the prey
becomes an empty hulk without losing its outline. We have seen that Garden Spiders feed in a similar way, bleeding
their venison and drinking it instead of eating it. At last, however, in
the comfortable post-prandial hours, they take up the drained morsel,
chew it, rechew it and reduce it to a shapeless ball. It is a dessert
for the teeth to toy with. The Labyrinth Spider knows nothing of the
diversions of the table; she flings the drained remnants out of her web,
without chewing them. Although it lasts long, the meal is eaten in
perfect safety. From the first bite, the Locust becomes a lifeless
thing; the Spider's poison has settled him. The labyrinth is greatly inferior, as a work of art, to that advanced
geometrical contrivance, the Garden Spider's net; and, in spite of its
ingenuity, it does not give a favourable notion of its constructor. It
is hardly more than a shapeless scaffolding, run up anyhow. And yet,
like the others, the builder of this slovenly edifice must have her own
principles of beauty and accuracy. As it is, the prettily-latticed mouth
of the crater makes us suspect this; the nest, the mother's usual
masterpiece, will prove it to the full. When laying-time is at hand, the Spider changes her residence; she
abandons her web in excellent condition; she does not return to it. Whoso will can take possession of the house. The hour has come to found
the family-establishment. But where? The Spider knows right well; I am
in the dark. Mornings are spent in fruitless searches. In vain I ransack
the bushes that carry the webs: I never find aught that realizes my
hopes. I learn the secret at last. I chance upon a web which, though
deserted, is not yet dilapidated, proving that it has been but lately
quitted. Instead of hunting in the brushwood whereon it rests, let us
inspect the neighbourhood, to a distance of a few paces. If these
contain a low, thick cluster, the nest is there, hidden from the eye. It
carries an authentic certificate of its origin, for the mother
invariably occupies it. By this method of investigation, far from the labyrinth-trap, I
become the owner of as many nests as are needed to satisfy my curiosity. They do not by a long way come up to my idea of the maternal talent. They are clumsy bundles of dead leaves, roughly drawn together with silk
threads. Under this rude covering is a pouch of fine texture containing
the egg-casket, all in very bad condition, because of the inevitable
tears incurred in its extrication from the brushwood. No, I shall not be
able to judge of the artist's capacity by these rags and tatters. The insect, in its buildings, has its own architectural rules, rules
as unchangeable as anatomical peculiarities. Each group builds according
to the same set of principles, conforming to the laws of a very
elementary system of aesthetics; but often circumstances beyond the
architect's control–the space at her disposal, the unevenness of the
site, the nature of the material and other accidental causes–interfere
with the worker's plans and disturb the structure. Then virtual
regularity is translated into actual chaos; order degenerates into
disorder. We might discover an interesting subject of research in the type
adopted by each species when the work is accomplished without
hindrances. The Banded Epeira weaves the wallet of her eggs in the open,
on a slim branch that does not get in her way; and her work is a
superbly artistic jar. The Silky Epeira also has all the elbow-room she
needs; and her paraboloid is not without elegance. Can the Labyrinth
Spider, that other spinstress of accomplished merit, be ignorant of the
precepts of beauty when the time comes for her to weave a tent for her
offspring? As yet, what I have seen of her work is but an unsightly
bundle.