The experiment works perfectly. August is hardly over before I am in
possession of six nests, magnificent in shape and of a dazzling
whiteness. The latitude of the workshop has enabled the spinstress to
follow the inspiration of her instinct without serious obstacles; and
the result is a masterpiece of symmetry and elegance, if we allow for a
few angularities demanded by the suspension-points. It is an oval of exquisite white muslin, a diaphanous abode wherein
the mother must make a long stay to watch over the brood. The size is
nearly that of a Hen's egg. The cabin is open at either end. The
front-entrance broadens into a gallery; the back-entrance tapers into a
funnel-neck. I fail to see the object of this neck. As for the opening
in front, which is wider, this is, beyond a doubt, a victualling-door. I
see the Spider, at intervals, standing here on the look-out for the
Locust, whom she consumes outside, taking care not to soil the spotless
sanctuary with corpses. The structure of the nest is not without a certain similarity to that
of the home occupied during the hunting-season. The passage at the back
represents the funnel-neck, that ran almost down to the ground and
afforded an outlet for flight in case of grave danger. The one in front,
expanding into a mouth kept wide open by cords stretched backwards and
forwards, recalls the yawning gulf into which the victims used to fall. Every part of the old dwelling is repeated: even the labyrinth, though
this, it is true, is on a much smaller scale. In front of the
bell-shaped mouth is a tangle of threads wherein the passers-by are
caught. Each species, in this way, possesses a primary architectural
model which is followed as a whole, in spite of altered conditions. The
animal knows its trade thoroughly, but it does not know and will never
know aught else, being incapable of originality. Now this palace of silk, when all is said, is nothing more than a
guard-house. Behind the soft, milky opalescence of the wall glimmers the
egg-tabernacle, with its form vaguely suggesting the star of some order
of knighthood. It is a large pocket, of a splendid dead-white, isolated
on every side by radiating pillars which keep it motionless in the
centre of the tapestry. These pillars are about ten in number and are
slender in the middle, expanding at one end into a conical capital and
at the other into a base of the same shape. They face one another and
mark the position of the vaulted corridors which allow free movement in
every direction around the central chamber. The mother walks gravely to
and fro under the arches of her cloisters, she stops first here, then
there; she makes a lengthy auscultation of the egg-wallet; she listens
to all that happens inside the satin wrapper. To disturb her would be
barbarous. For a closer examination, let us use the dilapidated nests which we
brought from the fields. Apart from its pillars, the egg-pocket is an
inverted conoid, reminding us of the work of the Silky Epeira. Its
material is rather stout; my pincers, pulling at it, do not tear it
without difficulty. Inside the bag there is nothing but an extremely
fine, white wadding and, lastly, the eggs, numbering about a hundred and
comparatively large, for they measure a millimetre and a half. {37} They are very pale amber-yellow beads, which
do not stick together and which roll freely as soon as I remove the
swan's-down shroud. Let us put everything into a glass-tube to study the
hatching.