She has still a few long months to live and she needs nourishment. Were it not better, then, to lodge the eggs in the immediate
neighbourhood of the present home and to continue her hunting with the
excellent snare at her disposal? The watching of the nest and the easy
acquisition of provender would go hand in hand. The Spider is of another
opinion; and I suspect the reason. The sheet-net and the labyrinth that surmounts it are objects visible
from afar, owing to their whiteness and the height whereat they are
placed. Their scintillation in the sun, in frequented paths, attracts
Mosquitoes and Butterflies, like the lamps in our rooms and the fowler's
looking-glass. Whoso comes to look at the bright thing too closely dies
the victim of his curiosity. There is nothing better for playing upon
the folly of the passer-by, but also nothing more dangerous to the
safety of the family. Harpies will not fail to come running at this signal, showing up
against the green; guided by the position of the web, they will
assuredly find the precious purse; and a strange grub, feasting on a
hundred new-laid eggs, will ruin the establishment. I do not know these
enemies, not having sufficient materials at my disposal for a register
of the parasites; but, from indications gathered elsewhere, I suspect
them. The Banded Epeira, trusting to the strength of her stuff, fixes her
nest in the sight of all, hangs it on the brushwood, taking no
precautions whatever to hide it. And a bad business it proves for her. Her jar provides me with an Ichneumon {38} possessed of the inoculating larding-pin: a
Cryptus who, as a grub, had fed on Spiders' eggs. Nothing but
empty shells was left inside the central keg; the germs were completely
exterminated. There are other Ichneumon-flies, moreover, addicted to
robbing Spiders' nests; a basket of fresh eggs is their offspring's
regular food. Like any other, the Labyrinth Spider dreads the scoundrelly advent of
the pickwallet; she provides for it and, to shield herself against it as
far as possible, chooses a hiding-place outside her dwelling, far
removed from the tell-tale web. When she feels her ovaries ripen, she
shifts her quarters; she goes off at night to explore the neighbourhood
and seek a less dangerous refuge. The points selected are, by
preference, the low brambles dragging along the ground, keeping their
dense verdure during the winter and crammed with dead leaves from the
oaks hard by. Rosemary-tufts, which gain in thickness what they lose in
height on the unfostering rock, suit her particularly. This is where I
usually find her nest, not without long seeking, so well is it
hidden.