So far, there is no departure from current usage. As the world is
full of creatures on the prowl for tender mouthfuls, every mother has
her apprehensions; she also has her natural wisdom, which advises her to
establish her family in secret places. Very few neglect this precaution;
each, in her own manner, conceals the eggs she lays. In the case of the Labyrinth Spider, the protection of the brood is
complicated by another condition. In the vast majority of instances, the
eggs, once lodged in a favourable spot, are abandoned to themselves,
left to the chances of good or ill fortune. The Spider of the brushwood,
on the contrary, endowed with greater maternal devotion, has, like the
Crab Spider, to mount guard over hers until they hatch. With a few threads and some small leaves joined together, the Crab
Spider builds, above her lofty nest, a rudimentary watch-tower where she
stays permanently, greatly emaciated, flattened into a sort of wrinkled
shell through the emptying of her ovaries and the total absence of food. And this mere shred, hardly more than a skin that persists in living
without eating, stoutly defends her egg-sack, shows fight at the
approach of any tramp. She does not make up her mind to die until the
little ones are gone. The Labyrinth Spider is better treated. After laying her eggs, so far
from becoming thin, she preserves an excellent appearance and a round
belly. Moreover, she does not lose her appetite and is always prepared
to bleed a Locust. She therefore requires a dwelling with a hunting-box
close to the eggs watched over. We know this dwelling, built in strict
accordance with artistic canons under the shelter of my cages. Remember the magnificent oval guard-room, running into a vestibule at
either end; the egg-chamber slung in the centre and isolated on every
side by half a score of pillars; the front-hall expanding into a wide
mouth and surmounted by a network of taut threads forming a trap. The
semi-transparency of the walls allows us to see the Spider engaged in
her household affairs. Her cloister of vaulted passages enables her to
proceed to any point of the star-shaped pouch containing the eggs. Indefatigable in her rounds, she stops here and there; she fondly feels
the satin, listens to the secrets of the wallet. If I shake the net at
any point with a straw, she quickly runs up to enquire what is
happening. Will this vigilance frighten off the Ichneumon and other
lovers of omelettes? Perhaps so. But, though this danger be averted,
others will come when the mother is no longer there. Her attentive watch does not make her overlook her meals. One of the
Locusts whereof I renew the supply at intervals in the cages is caught
in the cords of the great entrance-hall. The Spider arrives hurriedly,
snatches the giddy-pate and disjoints his shanks, which she empties of
their contents, the best part of the insect. The remainder of the
carcass is afterwards drained more or less, according to her appetite at
the time. The meal is taken outside the guard-room, on the threshold,
never indoors. These are not capricious mouthfuls, serving to beguile the boredom of
the watch for a brief while; they are substantial repasts, which require
several sittings. Such an appetite astonishes me, after I have seen the
Crab Spider, that no less ardent watcher, refuse the Bees whom I give
her and allow herself to die of inanition. Can this other mother have so
great a need as that to eat? Yes, certainly she has; and for an
imperative reason. At the beginning of her work, she spent a large amount of silk,
perhaps all that her reserves contained; for the double dwelling–for
herself and for her offspring–is a huge edifice, exceedingly costly in
materials; and yet, for nearly another month, I see her adding layer
upon layer both to the wall of the large cabin and to that of the
central chamber, so much so that the texture, which at first was
translucent gauze, becomes opaque satin. The walls never seem thick
enough; the Spider is always working at them. To satisfy this lavish
expenditure, she must incessantly, by means of feeding, fill her
silk-glands as and when she empties them by spinning. Food is the means
whereby she keeps the inexhaustible factory going. A month passes and, about the middle of September, the little ones
hatch, but without leaving their tabernacle, where they are to spend the
winter packed in soft wadding. The mother continues to watch and spin,
lessening her activity from day to day. She recruits herself with a
Locust at longer intervals; she sometimes scorns those whom I myself
entangle in her trap. This increasing abstemiousness, a sign of
decrepitude, slackens and at last stops the work of the spinnerets. For four or five weeks longer, the mother never ceases her leisurely
inspection-rounds, happy at hearing the new-born Spiders swarming in the
wallet. At length, when October ends, she clutches her offspring's
nursery and dies withered. She has done all that maternal devotion can
do; the special providence of tiny animals will do the rest. When spring
comes, the youngsters will emerge from their snug habitation, disperse
all over the neighbourhood by the expedient of the floating thread and
weave their first attempts at a labyrinth on the tufts of thyme. Accurate in structure and neat in silk-work though they be, the nests
of the caged captives do not tell us everything; we must go back to what
happens in the fields, with their complicated conditions. Towards the
end of December, I again set out in search, aided by all my youthful
collaborators. We inspect the stunted rosemaries along the edge of a
path sheltered by a rocky, wooded slope; we lift the branches that
spread over the ground. Our zeal is rewarded with success. In a couple
of hours, I am the owner of some nests. Pitiful pieces of work are they, injured beyond recognition by the
assaults of the weather! It needs the eyes of faith to see in these
ruins the equivalent of the edifices built inside my cages. Fastened to
the creeping branch, the unsightly bundle lies on the sand heaped up by
the rains. Oak-leaves, roughly joined by a few threads, wrap it all
round. One of these leaves, larger than the others, roofs it in and
serves as a scaffolding for the whole of the ceiling. If we did not see
the silky remnants of the two vestibules projecting and feel a certain
resistance when separating the parts of the bundle, we might take the
thing for a casual accumulation, the work of the rain and the wind. Let us examine our find and look more closely into its shapelessness. Here is the large room, the maternal cabin, which rips as the coating of
leaves is removed; here are the circular galleries of the guard-room;
here are the central chamber and its pillars, all in a fabric of
immaculate white. The dirt from the damp ground has not penetrated to
this dwelling protected by its wrapper of dead leaves. Now open the habitation of the offspring. What is this? To my utter
astonishment, the contents of the chamber are a kernel of earthy
matters, as though the muddy rain-water had been allowed to soak
through. Put aside that idea, says the satin wall, which itself is
perfectly clean inside. It is most certainly the mother's doing, a
deliberate piece of work, executed with minute care. The grains of sand
are stuck together with a cement of silk; and the whole resists the
pressure of the fingers. If we continue to unshell the kernel, we find, below this mineral
layer, a last silken tunic that forms a globe around the brood. No
sooner do we tear this final covering than the frightened little ones
run away and scatter with an agility that is singular at this cold and
torpid season. To sum up, when working in the natural state, the Labyrinth Spider
builds around the eggs, between two sheets of satin, a wall composed of
a great deal of sand and a little silk. To stop the Ichneumon's probe
and the teeth of the other ravagers, the best thing that occurred to her
was this hoarding which combines the hardness of flint with the softness
of muslin. This means of defence seems to be pretty frequent among Spiders. Our
own big House Spider, Tegenaria domestica, encloses her eggs in
a globule strengthened with a rind of silk and of crumbly wreckage from
the mortar of the walls. Other species, living in the open under stones,
work in the same way. They wrap their eggs in a mineral shell held
together with silk. The same fears have inspired the same protective
methods. Then how comes it that, of the five mothers reared in my cages, not
one has had recourse to the clay rampart? After all, sand abounded: the
pans in which the wire-gauze covers stood were full of it. On the other
hand, under normal conditions, I have often come across nests without
any mineral casing. These incomplete nests were placed at some height
from the ground, in the thick of the brushwood; the others, on the
contrary, those supplied with a coating of sand, lay on the ground. The method of the work explains these differences.