Take a careful look at the habitation. The arches that gird the roof with a balustrade and bear the weight of
the edifice are fixed to the slab by their extremities. Moreover, from
each point of contact, there issues a cluster of diverging threads that
creep along the stone and cling to it throughout their length, which
spreads afar. I have measured some fully nine inches long. These are so
many cables; they represent the ropes and pegs that hold the Arab's tent
in position. With such supports as these, so numerous and so
methodically arranged, the hammock cannot be torn from its bearings save
by the intervention of brutal methods with which the Spider need not
concern herself, so seldom do they occur. {39} that favour underrock shelters; segments of
Iuli,

{40} bleached by the sun; shells of Pupae,

{41} common among the stones; and, lastly,
Snail-shells, selected from among the smallest. These relics are obviously, for the most part, table-leavings, broken
victuals. Unversed in the trapper's art, the Clotho courses her game and
lives upon the vagrants who wander from one stone to another. Whoso
ventures under the slab at night is strangled by the hostess; and the
dried-up carcass, instead of being flung to a distance, is hung to the
silken wall, as though the Spider wished to make a bogey-house of her
home. But this cannot be her aim. To act like the ogre who hangs his
victims from the castle battlements is the worst way to disarm suspicion
in the passers-by whom you are lying in wait to capture. There are other reasons which increase our doubts. The shells hung up
are most often empty; but there are also some occupied by the Snail,
alive and untouched. What can the Clotho do with a Pupa
cinerea, a Pupa quadridens and other narrow spirals
wherein the animal retreats to an inaccessible depth? The Spider is
incapable of breaking the calcareous shell or of getting at the hermit
through the opening. Then why should she collect those prizes, whose
slimy flesh is probably not to her taste? We begin to suspect a simple
question of ballast and balance. The House Spider, or Tegenaria
domestica, prevents her web, spun in a corner of the wall, from
losing its shape at the least breath of air, by loading it with
crumbling plaster and allowing tiny fragments of mortar to accumulate. Are we face to face with a similar process?