Once more with hanging strings of sand. In a
few nights, the silk bag bristles with a long, thick beard of
stalactites, a curious piece of work, excellently adapted to maintain
the web in an unvaried curve. Even so are the cables of a
suspension-bridge steadied by the weight of the superstructure. Later, as the Spider goes on feeding, the remains of the victuals are
embedded in the wall, the sand is shaken and gradually drops away and
the home resumes its charnel-house appearance. This brings us to the
same conclusion as before: the Clotho knows her statics; by means of
additional weights, she is able to lower the centre of gravity and thus
to give her dwelling the proper equilibrium and capacity. Now what does she do in her softly-wadded home? Nothing, that I know
of. With a full stomach, her legs luxuriously stretched over the downy
carpet, she does nothing, thinks of nothing; she listens to the sound of
earth revolving on its axis. It is not sleep, still less is it waking;
it is a middle state where naught prevails save a dreamy consciousness
of well-being. We ourselves, when comfortably in bed, enjoy, just before
we fall asleep, a few moments of bliss, the prelude to cessation of
thought and its train of worries; and those moments are among the
sweetest in our lives. The Clotho seems to know similar moments and to
make the most of them. If I push open the door of the cabin, invariably I find the Spider
lying motionless, as though in endless meditation. It needs the teasing
of a straw to rouse her from her apathy. It needs the prick of hunger to
bring her out of doors; and, as she is extremely temperate, her
appearances outside are few and far between. During three years of
assiduous observation, in the privacy of my study, I have not once seen
her explore the domain of the wire cage by day. Not until a late hour at
night does she venture forth in quest of victuals; and it is hardly
feasible to follow her on her excursions. Patience once enabled me to find her, at ten o'clock in the evening,
taking the air on the flat roof of her house, where she was doubtless
waiting for the game to pass. Startled by the light of my candle, the
lover of darkness at once returned indoors, refusing to reveal any of
her secrets. Only, next day, there was one more corpse hanging from the
wall of the cabin, a proof that the chase was successfully resumed after
my departure. The Clotho, who is not only nocturnal, but also excessively shy,
conceals her habits from us; she shows us her works, those precious
historical documents, but hides her actions, especially the laying,
which I estimate approximately to take place in October. The sum total
of the eggs is divided into five or six small, flat, lentiform pockets,
which, taken together, occupy the greater part of the maternal home. These capsules have each their own partition-wall of superb white satin,
but they are so closely soldered, both together and to the floor of the
house, that it is impossible to part them without tearing them,
impossible, therefore, to obtain them separately. The eggs in all amount
to about a hundred. The mother sits upon the heap of pockets with the same devotion as a
brooding hen. Maternity has not withered her. Although decreased in
bulk, she retains an excellent look of health; her round belly and her
well-stretched skin tell us from the first that her part is not yet
wholly played. The hatching takes place early. November has not arrived before the
pockets contain the young: wee things clad in black, with five yellow
specks, exactly like their elders. The new-born do not leave their
respective nurseries. Packed close together, they spend the whole of the
wintry season there, while the mother, squatting on the pile of cells,
watches over the general safety, without knowing her family other than
by the gentle trepidations felt through the partitions of the tiny
chambers. The Labyrinth Spider has shown us how she maintains a
permanent sitting for two months in her guard-room, to defend, in case
of need, the brood which she will never see. The Clotho does the same
during eight months, thus earning the right to set eyes for a little
while on her family trotting around her in the main cabin and to assist
at the final exodus, the great journey undertaken at the end of a
thread. When the summer heat arrives, in June, the young ones, probably aided
by their mother, pierce the walls of their cells, leave the maternal
tent, of which they know the secret outlet well, take the air on the
threshold for a few hours and then fly away, carried to some distance by
a funicular aeroplane, the first product of their spinning-mill. The elder Clotho remains behind, careless of this emigration which
leaves her alone. She is far from being faded indeed, she looks younger
than ever. Her fresh colour, her robust appearance suggest great length
of life, capable of producing a second family.