The tip of the belly no longer sways from side to side. It
sinks and touches a point; it retreats, sinks again and touches another
point, first here, then there, describing inextricable zigzags. At the
same time, the hind-legs tread the material emitted. The result is no
longer a stuff, but a felt, a blanketing. Around the satin capsule, which contains the eggs, is the eiderdown
destined to keep out the cold. The youngsters will bide for some time in
this soft shelter, to strengthen their joints and prepare for the final
exodus. It does not take long to make. The spinning-mill suddenly alters
the raw material: it was turning out white silk; it now furnishes
reddish-brown silk, finer than the other and issuing in clouds which the
hind-legs, those dexterous carders, beat into a sort of froth. The
egg-pocket disappears, drowned in this exquisite wadding. The balloon-shape is already outlined; the top of the work tapers to
a neck. The Spider, moving up and down, tacking first to one side and
then to the other, from the very first spray marks out the graceful form
as accurately as though she carried a compass in her abdomen. Then, once again, with the same suddenness, the material changes. The
white silk reappears, wrought into thread. This is the moment to weave
the outer wrapper. Because of the thickness of the stuff and the density
of its texture, this operation is the longest of the series. First, a few threads are flung out, hither and thither, to keep the
layer of wadding in position. The Epeira takes special pains with the
edge of the neck, where she fashions an indented border, the angles of
which, prolonged with cords or lines, form the main support of the
building. The spinnerets never touch this part without giving it, each
time, until the end of the work, a certain added solidity, necessary to
secure the stability of the balloon. The suspensory indentations soon
outline a crater which needs plugging. The Spider closes the bag with a
padded stopper similar to that with which she sealed the egg-pocket. When these arrangements are made, the real manufacture of the wrapper
begins. The Spider goes backwards and forwards, turns and turns again. The spinnerets do not touch the fabric. With a rhythmical, alternate
movement, the hind-legs, the sole implements employed, draw the thread,
seize it in their combs and apply it to the work, while the tip of the
abdomen sways methodically to and fro. In this way, the silken fibre is distributed in an even zigzag, of
almost geometrical precision and comparable with that of the cotton
thread which the machines in our factories roll so neatly into balls. And this is repeated all over the surface of the work, for the Spider
shifts her position a little at every moment. At fairly frequent intervals, the tip of the abdomen is lifted to the
mouth of the balloon; and then the spinnerets really touch the fringed
edge. The length of contact is even considerable. We find, therefore,
that the thread is stuck in this star-shaped fringe, the foundation of
the building and the crux of the whole, while every elsewhere it is
simply laid on, in a manner determined by the movements of the
hind-legs. If we wished to unwind the work, the thread would break at
the margin; at any other point, it would unroll. The Epeira ends her web with a dead-white, angular flourish; she ends
her nest with brown mouldings, which run down, irregularly, from the
marginal junction to the bulging middle. For this purpose, she makes
use, for the third time, of a different silk; she now produces silk of a
dark hue, varying from russet to black. The spinnerets distribute the
material with a wide longitudinal swing, from pole to pole; and the
hind-legs apply it in capricious ribbons. When this is done, the work is
finished. The Spider moves away with slow strides, without giving a
glance at the bag. The rest does not interest her: time and the sun will
see to it. She felt her hour at hand and came down from her web. Near by, in the
rank grass, she wove the tabernacle of her offspring and, in so doing,
drained her resources. To resume her hunting-post, to return to her web
would be useless to her: she has not the wherewithal to bind the prey. Besides, the fine appetite of former days has gone. Withered and
languid, she drags out her existence for a few days and, at last, dies. This is how things happen in my cages; this is how they must happen in
the brushwood. The Silky Epeira (Epeira sericea, OLIV.) excels the Banded
Epeira in the manufacture of big hunting-nets, but she is less gifted in
the art of nest-building. She gives her nest the inelegant form of an
obtuse cone. The opening of this pocket is very wide and is scalloped
into lobes by which the edifice is slung. It is closed with a large lid,
half satin, half swan's-down. The rest is a stout white fabric,
frequently covered with irregular brown streaks. The difference between the work of the two Epeirae does not extend
beyond the wrapper, which is an obtuse cone in the one case and a
balloon in the other. The same internal arrangements prevail behind this
frontage: first, a flossy quilt; next, a little keg in which the eggs
are packed. Though the two Spiders build the outer wall according to
special architectural rules, they both employ the same means as a
protection against the cold. As we see, the egg-bag of the Epeirae, particularly that of the
Banded Epeira, is an important and complex work. Various materials enter
into its composition: white silk, red silk, brown silk; moreover, these
materials are worked into dissimilar products: stout cloth, soft
eiderdown, dainty satinette, porous felt. And all of this comes from the
same workshop that weaves the hunting-net, warps the zigzag ribbon-band
and casts an entangling shroud over the prey. What a wonderful silk-factory it is! With a very simple and
never-varying plant, consisting of the hind-legs and the spinnerets, it
produces, by turns, rope-maker's, spinner's, weaver's, ribbon-maker's
and fuller's work. How does the Spider direct an establishment of this
kind? How does she obtain, at will, skeins of diverse hues and grades? How does she turn them out, first in this fashion, then in that? I see
the results, but I do not understand the machinery and still less the
process.