The old cabin, comfortably wadded though it be, possesses serious
disadvantages: it is littered with the ruins of the children's
nurseries. These ruins are so close-welded to the rest of the home that
my forceps cannot extract them without difficulty; and to remove them
would be an exhausting business for the Clotho and possibly beyond her
strength. It is a case of the resistance of Gordian knots, which not
even the very spinstress who fastened them is capable of untying. The
encumbering litter, therefore, will remain. If the Spider were to stay alone, the reduction of space, when all is
said, would hardly matter to her: she wants so little room, merely
enough to move in! Besides, when you have spent seven or eight months in
the cramping presence of those bedchambers, what can be the reason of a
sudden need for greater space? I see but one: the Spider requires a
roomy habitation, not for herself–she is satisfied with the smallest
den–but for a second family. Where is she to place the pockets of eggs,
if the ruins of the previous laying remain in the way? A new brood
requires a new home. That, no doubt, is why, feeling that her ovaries
are not yet dried up, the Spider shifts her quarters and founds a new
establishment. The facts observed are confined to this change of dwelling. I regret
that other interests and the difficulties attendant upon a long
upbringing did not allow me to pursue the question and definitely to
settle the matter of the repeated layings and the longevity of the
Clotho, as I did in that of the Lycosa. Before taking leave of this Spider, let us glance at a curious
problem which has already been set by the Lycosa's offspring. When
carried for seven months on the mother's back, they keep in training as
agile gymnasts without taking any nourishment. It is a familiar exercise
for them, after a fall, which frequently occurs, to scramble up a leg of
their mount and nimbly to resume their place in the saddle. They expend
energy without receiving any material sustenance. The sons of the Clotho, the Labyrinth Spider and many others confront
us with the same riddle: they move, yet do not eat. At any period of the
nursery stage, even in the heart of winter, on the bleak days of
January, I tear the pockets of the one and the tabernacle of the other,
expecting to find the swarm of youngsters lying in a state of complete
inertia, numbed by the cold and by lack of food.