No
brood of Partridges, stumbled upon by a Dog, scatters more promptly. Chicks, while still no more than tiny balls of yellow fluff, hasten
up at the mother's call and scurry towards the plate of rice. Habit has
made us indifferent to the spectacle of those pretty little animal
machines, which work so nimbly and with such precision; we pay no
attention, so simple does it all appear to us. Science examines and
looks at things differently. She says to herself:

˜Nothing is made with nothing. The chick feeds itself; it consumes or
rather it assimilates and turns the food into heat, which is converted
into energy.'

Were any one to tell us of a chick which, for seven or eight months
on end, kept itself in condition for running, always fit, always brisk,
without taking the least beakful of nourishment from the day when it
left the egg, we could find no words strong enough to express our
incredulity. Now this paradox of activity maintained without the stay of
food is realized by the Clotho Spider and others. I believe I have made it sufficiently clear that the young Lycosae
take no food as long as they remain with their mother. Strictly
speaking, doubt is just admissible, for observation is needs dumb as to
what may happen earlier or later within the mysteries of the burrow. It
seems possible that the repleted mother may there disgorge to her family
a mite of the contents of her crop. To this suggestion the Clotho
undertakes to make reply. Like the Lycosa, she lives with her family; but the Clotho is
separated from them by the walls of the cells in which the little ones
are hermetically enclosed. In this condition, the transmission of solid
nourishment becomes impossible. Should any one entertain a theory of
nutritive humours cast up by the mother and filtering through the
partitions at which the prisoners might come and drink, the Labyrinth
Spider would at once dispel the idea. She dies a few weeks after her
young are hatched; and the children, still locked in their satin
bed-chamber for the best part of the year, are none the less active. Can it be that they derive sustenance from the silken wrapper? Do
they eat their house? The supposition is not absurd, for we have seen
the Epeirae, before beginning a new web, swallow the ruins of the old. But the explanation cannot be accepted, as we learn from the Lycosa,
whose family boasts no silky screen. In short, it is certain that the
young, of whatever species, take absolutely no nourishment. Lastly, we wonder whether they may possess within themselves reserves
that come from the egg, fatty or other matters the gradual combustion of
which would be transformed into mechanical force. If the expenditure of
energy were of but short duration, a few hours or a few days, we could
gladly welcome this idea of a motor viaticum, the attribute of every
creature born into the world. The chick possesses it in a high degree:
it is steady on its legs, it moves for a little while with the sole aid
of the food wherewith the egg furnishes it; but soon, if the stomach is
not kept supplied, the centre of energy becomes extinct and the bird
dies. How would the chick fare if it were expected, for seven or eight
months without stopping, to stand on its feet, to run about, to flee in
the face of danger? Where would it stow the necessary reserves for such
an amount of work? The little Spider, in her turn, is a minute particle of no size at
all. Where could she store enough fuel to keep up mobility during so
long a period? The imagination shrinks in dismay before the thought of
an atom endowed with inexhaustible motive oils. We must needs, therefore, appeal to the immaterial, in particular to
heat-rays coming from the outside and converted into movement by the
organism. This is nutrition of energy reduced to its simplest
expression: the motive heat, instead of being extracted from the food,
is utilized direct, as supplied by the sun, which is the seat of all
life. Inert matter has disconcerting secrets, as witness radium; living
matter has secrets of its own, which are more wonderful still. Nothing
tells us that science will not one day turn the suspicion suggested by
the Spider into an established truth and a fundamental theory of
physiology. APPENDIX:
THE GEOMETRY OF THE EPEIRA'S WEB

I find myself confronted with a subject which is not only highly
interesting, but somewhat difficult: not that the subject is obscure;
but it presupposes in the reader a certain knowledge of geometry: a
strong meat too often neglected. I am not addressing geometricians, who
are generally indifferent to questions of instinct, nor entomological
collectors, who, as such, take no interest in mathematical theorems; I
write for any one with sufficient intelligence to enjoy the lessons
which the insect teaches. What am I to do? To suppress this chapter were to leave out the most
remarkable instance of Spider industry; to treat it as it should be
treated, that is to say, with the whole armoury of scientific formulae,
would be out of place in these modest pages. Let us take a middle
course, avoiding both abstruse truths and complete ignorance. Let us direct our attention to the nets of the Epeirae, preferably to
those of the Silky Epeira and the Banded Epeira, so plentiful in the
autumn, in my part of the country, and so remarkable for their bulk. We
shall first observe that the radii are equally spaced; the angles formed
by each consecutive pair are of perceptibly equal value; and this in
spite of their number, which in the case of the Silky Epeira exceeds two
score. We know by what strange means the Spider attains her ends and
divides the area wherein the web is to be warped into a large number of
equal sectors, a number which is almost invariable in the work of each
species. An operation without method, governed, one might imagine, by an
irresponsible whim, results in a beautiful rose-window worthy of our
compasses. We shall also notice that, in each sector, the various chords, the
elements of the spiral windings, are parallel to one another and
gradually draw closer together as they near the centre. With the two
radiating lines that frame them they form obtuse angles on one side and
acute angles on the other; and these angles remain constant in the same
sector, because the chords are parallel. There is more than this: these same angles, the obtuse as well as the
acute, do not alter in value, from one sector to another, at any rate so
far as the conscientious eye can judge. Taken as a whole, therefore, the
rope-latticed edifice consists of a series of cross-bars intersecting
the several radiating lines obliquely at angles of equal value. By this characteristic we recognize the ˜logarithmic spiral.'
Geometricians give this name to the curve which intersects obliquely, at
angles of unvarying value, all the straight lines or ˜radii vectores'
radiating from a centre called the ˜Pole.' The Epeira's construction,
therefore, is a series of chords joining the intersections of a
logarithmic spiral with a series of radii. It would become merged in
this spiral if the number of radii were infinite, for this would reduce
the length of the rectilinear elements indefinitely and change this
polygonal line into a curve. To suggest an explanation why this spiral has so greatly exercised
the meditations of science, let us confine ourselves for the present to
a few statements of which the reader will find the proof in any treatise
on higher geometry. The logarithmic spiral describes an endless number of circuits around
its pole, to which it constantly draws nearer without ever being able to
reach it. This central point is indefinitely inaccessible at each
approaching turn. It is obvious that this property is beyond our sensory
scope. Even with the help of the best philosophical instruments, our
sight could not follow its interminable windings and would soon abandon
the attempt to divide the invisible. It is a volute to which the brain
conceives no limits. The trained mind, alone, more discerning than our
retina, sees clearly that which defies the perceptive faculties of the
eye. The Epeira complies to the best of her ability with this law of the
endless volute. The spiral revolutions come closer together as they
approach the pole. At a given distance, they stop abruptly; but, at this
point, the auxiliary spiral, which is not destroyed in the central
region, takes up the thread; and we see it, not without some surprise,
draw nearer to the pole in ever-narrowing and scarcely perceptible
circles. There is not, of course, absolute mathematical accuracy, but a
very close approximation to that accuracy. The Epeira winds nearer and
nearer round her pole, so far as her equipment, which, like our own, is
defective, will allow her. One would believe her to be thoroughly versed
in the laws of the spiral. I will continue to set forth, without explanations, some of the
properties of this curious curve. Picture a flexible thread wound round
a logarithmic spiral. If we then unwind it, keeping it taut the while,
its free extremity will describe a spiral similar at all points to the
original. The curve will merely have changed places. Jacques Bernouilli, {42} to whom geometry owes this magnificent
theorem, had engraved on his tomb, as one of his proudest titles to
fame, the generating spiral and its double, begotten of the unwinding of
the thread. An inscription proclaimed, ˜Eadem mutata resurgo: I
rise again like unto myself.' Geometry would find it difficult to better
this splendid flight of fancy towards the great problem of the
hereafter. There is another geometrical epitaph no less famous. Cicero, when
quaestor in Sicily, searching for the tomb of Archimedes amid the thorns
and brambles that cover us with oblivion, recognized it, among the
ruins, by the geometrical figure engraved upon the stone: the cylinder
circumscribing the sphere. Archimedes, in fact, was the first to know
the approximate relation of circumference to diameter; from it he
deduced the perimeter and surface of the circle, as well as the surface
and volume of the sphere. He showed that the surface and volume of the
last-named equal two-thirds of the surface and volume of the
circumscribing cylinder. Disdaining all pompous inscription, the learned
Syracusan honoured himself with his theorem as his sole epitaph. The
geometrical figure proclaimed the individual's name as plainly as would
any alphabetical characters. To have done with this part of our subject, here is another property
of the logarithmic spiral. Roll the curve along an indefinite straight
line.