It remains to be seen up to what point
the explanation is acceptable. The Spider, for her part, will have none
of it. Unrelated to the appendix-lacking, corkscrew-twirling Worm, she
is nevertheless familiar with the logarithmic spiral. From the
celebrated curve she obtains merely a sort of framework; but, elementary
though this framework be, it clearly marks the ideal edifice. The Epeira
works on the same principles as the Mollusc of the convoluted shell. The Mollusc has years wherein to construct its spiral and it uses the
utmost finish in the whirling process. The Epeira, to spread her net,
has but an hour's sitting at the most, wherefore the speed at which she
works compels her to rest content with a simpler production. She
shortens the task by confining herself to a skeleton of the curve which
the other describes to perfection. The Epeira, therefore, is versed in the geometric secrets of the
Ammonite and the Nautilus pompilus; she uses, in a simpler
form, the logarithmic line dear to the Snail. What guides her? There is
no appeal here to a wriggle of some kind, as in the case of the Worm
that ambitiously aspires to become a Mollusc. The animal must needs
carry within itself a virtual diagram of its spiral. Accident, however
fruitful in surprises we may presume it to be, can never have taught it
the higher geometry wherein our own intelligence at once goes astray,
without a strict preliminary training. Are we to recognize a mere effect of organic structure in the
Epeira's art? We readily think of the legs, which, endowed with a very
varying power of extension, might serve as compasses. More or less bent,
more or less outstretched, they would mechanically determine the angle
whereat the spiral shall intersect the radius; they would maintain the
parallel of the chords in each sector. Certain objections arise to affirm that, in this instance, the tool
is not the sole regulator of the work. Were the arrangement of the
thread determined by the length of the legs, we should find the spiral
volutes separated more widely from one another in proportion to the
greater length of implement in the spinstress. We see this in the Banded
Epeira and the Silky Epeira. The first has longer limbs and spaces her
cross-threads more liberally than does the second, whose legs are
shorter. But we must not rely too much on this rule, say others. The Angular
Epeira, the Paletinted Epeira and the Cross Spider, all three more or
less short-limbed, rival the Banded Epeira in the spacing of their
lime-snares. The last two even dispose them with greater intervening
distances. We recognize in another respect that the organization of the animal
does not imply an immutable type of work. Before beginning the sticky
spiral, the Epeirae first spin an auxiliary intended to strengthen the
stays. This spiral, formed of plain, non-glutinous thread, starts from
the centre and winds in rapidly-widening circles to the circumference. It is merely a temporary construction, whereof naught but the central
part survives when the Spider has set its limy meshes. The second
spiral, the essential part of the snare, proceeds, on the contrary, in
serried coils from the circumference to the centre and is composed
entirely of viscous cross-threads. Here we have, following one after the other merely by a sudden
alteration of the machine, two volutes of an entirely different order as
regards direction, the number of whorls and intersection. Both of them
are logarithmic spirals. I see no mechanism of the legs, be they long or
short, that can account for this alteration. Can it then be a premeditated design on the part of the Epeira? Can
there be calculation, measurement of angles, gauging of the parallel by
means of the eye or otherwise? I am inclined to think that there is none
of all this, or at least nothing but an innate propensity, whose effects
the animal is no more able to control than the flower is able to control
the arrangement of its verticils. The Epeira practises higher geometry
without knowing or caring. The thing works of itself and takes its
impetus from an instinct imposed upon creation from the start. The stone thrown by the hand returns to earth describing a certain
curve; the dead leaf torn and wafted away by a breath of wind makes its
journey from the tree to the ground with a similar curve. On neither the
one side nor the other is there any action by the moving body to
regulate the fall; nevertheless, the descent takes place according to a
scientific trajectory, the ˜parabola,' of which the section of a cone by
a plane furnished the prototype to the geometer's speculations. A
figure, which was at first but a tentative glimpse, becomes a reality by
the fall of a pebble out of the vertical. The same speculations take up the parabola once more, imagine it
rolling on an indefinite straight line and ask what course does the
focus of this curve follow. The answer comes: The focus of the parabola
describes a ˜catenary,' a line very simple in shape, but endowed with an
algebraic symbol that has to resort to a kind of cabalistic number at
variance with any sort of numeration, so much so that the unit refuses
to express it, however much we subdivide the unit. It is called the
number e. Its value is represented by the following series
carried out ad infinitum:

e = 1 + 1/1 + 1/(1*2) + 1/(1*2*3) + 1/(1*2*3*4) + 1/(1*2*3*4*5) +
etc

If the reader had the patience to work out the few initial terms of
this series, which has no limit, because the series of natural numerals
itself has none, he would find:

e=2.7182818... With this weird number are we now stationed within the strictly
defined realm of the imagination? Not at all: the catenary appears
actually every time that weight and flexibility act in concert. The name
is given to the curve formed by a chain suspended by two of its points
which are not placed on a vertical line.