They are not in the bag, which
I open and find empty. They are lying on the ground below, on the sand
in the pan, utterly unprotected. Disturbed at the moment of discharging them, the mother has missed
the mouth of the little bag and dropped them on the floor. Perhaps even,
in her excitement, she came down from above and, compelled by the
exigencies of the ovaries, laid her eggs on the first support that
offered. No matter: if her Spider brain contains the least gleam of
sense, she must be aware of the disaster and is therefore bound at once
to abandon the elaborate manufacture of a now superfluous nest. Not at all: the bag is woven around nothing, as accurate in shape, as
finished in structure as under normal conditions. The absurd
perseverance displayed by certain Bees, whose egg and provisions I used
to remove, {20} is here repeated without the slightest
interference from me. My victims used scrupulously to seal up their
empty cells. In the same way, the Epeira puts the eiderdown quilting and
the taffeta wrapper round a capsule that contains nothing. Another, distracted from her work by some startling vibration, leaves
her nest at the moment when the layer of red-brown wadding is being
completed. She flees to the dome, at a few inches above her unfinished
work, and spends upon a shapeless mattress, of no use whatever, all the
silk with which she would have woven the outer wrapper if nothing had
come to disturb her. Poor fool! You upholster the wires of your cage with swan's-down and
you leave the eggs imperfectly protected. The absence of the work
already executed and the hardness of the metal do not warn you that you
are now engaged upon a senseless task. You remind me of the Pelopaeus,
{21} who used to coat with mud the place on the
wall whence her nest had been removed. You speak to me, in your own
fashion, of a strange psychology which is able to reconcile the wonders
of a master craftsmanship with aberrations due to unfathomable
stupidity. Let us compare the work of the Banded Epeira with that of the
Penduline Titmouse, the cleverest of our small birds in the art of
nest-building. This Tit haunts the osier-beds of the lower reaches of
the Rhone. Rocking gently in the river breeze, his nest sways pendent
over the peaceful backwaters, at some distance from the too-impetuous
current. It hangs from the drooping end of the branch of a poplar, an
old willow or an alder, all of them tall trees, favouring the banks of
streams. It consists of a cotton bag, closed all round, save for a small
opening at the side, just sufficient to allow of the mother's passage. In shape, it resembles the body of an alembic, a chemist's retort with a
short lateral neck, or, better still, the foot of a stocking, with the
edges brought together, but for a little round hole left at one side. The outward appearances increase the likeness: one can almost see the
traces of a knitting-needle working with coarse stitches. That is why,
struck by this shape, the Provençal peasant, in his expressive language,
calls the Penduline lou Debassaire, the Stocking-knitter. The early-ripening seedlets of the widows and poplars furnish the
materials for the work. There breaks from them, in May, a sort of vernal
snow, a fine down, which the eddies of the air heap in the crevices of
the ground. It is a cotton similar to that of our manufactures, but of
very short staple. It comes from an inexhaustible warehouse: the tree is
bountiful; and the wind from the osier-beds gathers the tiny flocks as
they pour from the seeds. They are easy to pick up.