The difficulty is to set to work. How does the bird proceed, in order
to knit its stocking? How, with such simple implements as its beak and
claws, does it manage to produce a fabric which our skilled fingers
would fail to achieve? An examination of the nest will inform us, to a
certain extent. The cotton of the poplar cannot, of itself, supply a hanging pocket
capable of supporting the weight of the brood and resisting the
buffeting of the wind. Rammed, entangled and packed together, the
flocks, similar to those which ordinary wadding would give if chopped up
very fine, would produce only an agglomeration devoid of cohesion and
liable to be dispelled by the first breath of air. They require a
canvas, a warp, to keep them in position. Tiny dead stalks, with fibrous barks, well softened by the action of
moisture and the air, furnish the Penduline with a coarse tow, not
unlike that of hemp. With these ligaments, purged of every woody
particle and tested for flexibility and tenacity, he winds a number of
loops round the end of the branch which he has selected as a support for
his structure. It is not a very accurate piece of work. The loops run clumsily and
anyhow: some are slacker, others tighter; but, when all is said, it is
solid, which is the main point. Also, this fibrous sheath, the keystone
of the edifice, occupies a fair length of branch, which enables the
fastenings for the net to be multiplied. The several straps, after describing a certain number of turns, ravel
out at the ends and hang loose. After them come interlaced threads,
greater in number and finer in texture. In the tangled jumble occur what
might almost be described as weaver's knots. As far as one can judge by
the result alone, without having seen the bird at work, this is how the
canvas, the support of the cotton wall, is obtained. This warp, this inner framework, is obviously not constructed in its
entirety from the start; it goes on gradually, as the bird stuffs the
part above it with cotton. The wadding, picked up bit by bit from the
ground, is teazled by the bird's claws and inserted, all fleecy, into
the meshes of the canvas. The beak pushes it, the breast presses it,
both inside and out. The result is a soft felt a couple of inches
thick. Near the top of the pouch, on one side, is contrived a narrow
orifice, tapering into a short neck. This is the kitchen-door. In order
to pass through it, the Penduline, small though he be, has to force the
elastic partition, which yields slightly and then contracts. Lastly, the
house is furnished with a mattress of first-quality cotton. Here lie
from six to eight white eggs, the size of a cherry-stone. Well, this wonderful nest is a barbarous casemate compared with that
of the Banded Epeira. As regards shape, this stocking-foot cannot be
mentioned in the same breath with the Spider's elegant and
faultlessly-rounded balloon. The fabric of mixed cotton and tow is a
rustic frieze beside the spinstress' satin; the suspension-straps are
clumsy cables compared with her delicate silk fastenings. Where shall we
find in the Penduline's mattress aught to vie with the Epeira's
eiderdown, that teazled russet gossamer? The Spider is superior to the
bird in every way, in so far as concerns her work. But, on her side, the Penduline is a more devoted mother. For weeks
on end, squatting at the bottom of her purse, she presses to her heart
the eggs, those little white pebbles from which the warmth of her body
will bring forth life. The Epeira knows not these softer passions. Without bestowing a second glance an it, she abandons her nest to its
fate, be it good or ill. CHAPTER
III: THE NARBONNE LYCOSA

The Epeira, who displays such astonishing industry to give her eggs a
dwelling-house of incomparable perfection, becomes, after that, careless
of her family. For what reason?