She lacks the time. She has to die when
the first cold comes, whereas the eggs are destined to pass the winter
in their downy snuggery. The desertion of the nest is inevitable, owing
to the very force of things. But, if the hatching were earlier and took
place in the Epeira's lifetime, I imagine that she would rival the bird
in devotion. So I gather from the analogy of Thomisus onustus, WALCK., a
shapely Spider who weaves no web, lies in wait for her prey and walks
sideways, after the manner of the Crab. I have spoken elsewhere {22} of her encounters with the Domestic Bee,
whom she jugulates by biting her in the neck. Skilful in the prompt despatch of her prey, the little Crab Spider is
no less well-versed in the nesting art. I find her settled on a privet
in the enclosure. Here, in the heart of a cluster of flowers, the
luxurious creature plaits a little pocket of white satin, shaped like a
wee thimble. It is the receptacle for the eggs. A round, flat lid, of a
felted fabric, closes the mouth. Above this ceiling rises a dome of stretched threads and faded
flowerets which have fallen from the cluster. This is the watcher's
belvedere, her conning-tower. An opening, which is always free, gives
access to this post. Here the Spider remains on constant duty. She has thinned greatly
since she laid her eggs, has almost lost her corporation. At the least
alarm, she sallies forth, waves a threatening limb at the passing
stranger and invites him, with a gesture, to keep his distance. Having
put the intruder to flight, she quickly returns indoors. And what does she do in there, under her arch of withered flowers and
silk? Night and day, she shields the precious eggs with her poor body
spread out flat. Eating is neglected. No more lying in wait, no more
Bees drained to the last drop of blood. Motionless, rapt in meditation,
the Spider is in an incubating posture, in other words, she is sitting
on her eggs. Strictly speaking, the word ˜incubating' means that and
nothing else. The brooding Hen is no more assiduous, but she is also a
heating-apparatus and, with the gentle warmth of her body, awakens the
germs to life. For the Spider, the heat of the sun suffices; and this
alone keeps me from saying that she ˜broods.'

For two or three weeks, more and more wrinkled by abstinence, the
little Spider never relaxes her position. Then comes the hatching. The
youngsters stretch a few threads in swing-like curves from twig to twig. The tiny rope-dancers practise for some days in the sun; then they
disperse, each intent upon his own affairs. Let us now look at the watch-tower of the nest. The mother is still
there, but this time lifeless. The devoted creature has known the
delight of seeing her family born; she has assisted the weaklings
through the trap-door; and, when her duty was done, very gently she
died. The Hen does not reach this height of self-abnegation. Other Spiders do better still, as, for instance, the Narbonne Lycosa,
or Black-bellied Tarantula (Lycosa narbonnensis, WALCK.), whose
prowess has been described in an earlier chapter. The reader will
remember her burrow, her pit of a bottle-neck's width, dug in the pebbly
soil beloved by the lavender and the thyme. The mouth is rimmed by a
bastion of gravel and bits of wood cemented with silk. There is nothing
else around her dwelling: no web, no snares of any kind. From her inch-high turret, the Lycosa lies in wait for the passing
Locust. She gives a bound, pursues the prey and suddenly deprives it of
motion with a bite in the neck. The game is consumed on the spot, or
else in the lair; the insect's tough hide arouses no disgust. The sturdy
huntress is not a drinker of blood, like the Epeira; she needs solid
food, food that crackles between the jaws. She is like a Dog devouring
his bone. Would you care to bring her to the light of day from the depths of
her well? Insert a thin straw into the burrow and move it about. Uneasy
as to what is happening above, the recluse hastens to climb up and
stops, in a threatening attitude, at some distance from the orifice. You
see her eight eyes gleaming like diamonds in the dark; you see her
powerful poison-fangs yawning, ready to bite. He who is not accustomed
to the sight of this horror, rising from under the ground, cannot
suppress a shiver. B-r-r-r-r!