The remains of a Lycosa a little smaller
than herself, the remains of her male. It is the end of the tragedy that
concludes the nuptials. The sweetheart is eating her lover. I allow the
matrimonial rites to be fulfilled in all their horror; and, when the
last morsel of the unhappy wretch has been scrunched up, I incarcerate
the terrible matron under a cage standing in an earthen pan filled with
sand. Early one morning, ten days later, I find her preparing for her
confinement. A silk network is first spun on the ground, covering an
extent about equal to the palm of one's hand. It is coarse and
shapeless, but firmly fixed. This is the floor on which the Spider means
to operate. On this foundation, which acts as a protection from the sand, the
Lycosa fashions a round mat, the size of a two-franc piece and made of
superb white silk. With a gentle, uniform movement, which might be
regulated by the wheels of a delicate piece of clockwork, the tip of the
abdomen rises and falls, each time touching the supporting base a little
farther away, until the extreme scope of the mechanism is attained. Then, without the Spider's moving her position, the oscillation is
resumed in the opposite direction. By means of this alternate motion,
interspersed with numerous contacts, a segment of the sheet is obtained,
of a very accurate texture. When this is done, the Spider moves a little
along a circular line and the loom works in the same manner on another
segment. The silk disk, a sort of hardly concave paten, now no longer receives
aught from the spinnerets in its centre; the marginal belt alone
increases in thickness. The piece thus becomes a bowl-shaped porringer,
surrounded by a wide, flat edge. The time for the laying has come. With one quick emission, the
viscous, pale-yellow eggs are laid in the basin, where they heap
together in the shape of a globe which projects largely outside the
cavity. The spinnerets are once more set going. With short movements, as
the tip of the abdomen rises and falls to weave the round mat, they
cover up the exposed hemisphere. The result is a pill set in the middle
of a circular carpet. The legs, hitherto idle, are now working. They take up and break off
one by one the threads that keep the round mat stretched on the coarse
supporting network. At the same time, the fangs grip this sheet, lift it
by degrees, tear it from its base and fold it over upon the globe of
eggs. It is a laborious operation.