I can hear the
daggers grating on the steel. No, she would not allow herself to be
robbed of the wallet with impunity, if my fingers were not supplied with
an implement. By dint of pulling and shaking the pill with the forceps, I take it
from the Lycosa, who protests furiously. I fling her in exchange a pill
taken from another Lycosa. It is at once seized in the fangs, embraced
by the legs and hung on to the spinneret. Her own or another's: it is
all one to the Spider, who walks away proudly with the alien wallet. This was to be expected, in view of the similarity of the pills
exchanged. A test of another kind, with a second subject, renders the mistake
more striking. I substitute, in the place of the lawful bag which I have
removed, the work of the Silky Epeira. The colour and softness of the
material are the same in both cases; but the shape is quite different. The stolen object is a globe; the object presented in exchange is an
elliptical conoid studded with angular projections along the edge of the
base. The Spider takes no account of this dissimilarity. She promptly
glues the queer bag to her spinnerets and is as pleased as though she
were in possession of her real pill. My experimental villainies have no
other consequences beyond an ephemeral carting. When hatching-time
arrives, early in the case of the Lycosa, late in that of the Epeira,
the gulled Spider abandons the strange bag and pays it no further
attention. Let us penetrate yet deeper into the wallet-bearer's stupidity. After
depriving the Lycosa of her eggs, I throw her a ball of cork, roughly
polished with a file and of the same size as the stolen pill. She
accepts the corky substance, so different from the silk purse, without
the least demur. One would have thought that she would recognize her
mistake with those eight eyes of hers, which gleam like precious stones. The silly creature pays no attention. Lovingly she embraces the cork
ball, fondles it with her palpi, fastens it to her spinnerets and
thenceforth drags it after her as though she were dragging her own
bag. Let us give another the choice between the imitation and the real. The rightful pill and the cork ball are placed together on the floor of
the jar. Will the Spider be able to know the one that belongs to her? The fool is incapable of doing so. She makes a wild rush and seizes
haphazard at one time her property, at another my sham product. Whatever
is first touched becomes a good capture and is forthwith hung up. If I increase the number of cork balls, if I put in four or five of
them, with the real pill among them, it is seldom that the Lycosa
recovers her own property. Attempts at enquiry, attempts at selection
there are none.