Whatever she snaps up at random she sticks to, be it
good or bad. As there are more of the sham pills of cork, these are the
most often seized by the Spider. This obtuseness baffles me. Can the animal be deceived by the soft
contact of the cork? I replace the cork balls by pellets of cotton or
paper, kept in their round shape with a few bands of thread. Both are
very readily accepted instead of the real bag that has been removed. Can the illusion be due to the colouring, which is light in the cork
and not unlike the tint of the silk globe when soiled with a little
earth, while it is white in the paper and the cotton, when it is
identical with that of the original pill? I give the Lycosa, in exchange
for her work, a pellet of silk thread, chosen of a fine red, the
brightest of all colours. The uncommon pill is as readily accepted and
as jealously guarded as the others. We will leave the wallet-bearer alone; we know all that we want to
know about her poverty of intellect. Let us wait for the hatching, which
takes place in the first fortnight in September. As they come out of the
pill, the youngsters, to the number of about a couple of hundred,
clamber on the Spider's back and there sit motionless, jammed close
together, forming a sort of bark of mingled legs and paunches. The
mother is unrecognizable under this live mantilla. When the hatching is
over, the wallet is loosened from the spinnerets and cast aside as a
worthless rag. The little ones are very good: none stirs none tries to get more room
for himself at his neighbours' expense. What are they doing there, so
quietly? They allow themselves to be carted about, like the young of the
Opossum. Whether she sit in long meditation at the bottom of her den, or
come to the orifice, in mild weather, to bask in the sun, the Lycosa
never throws off her great-coat of swarming youngsters until the fine
season comes. If, in the middle of winter, in January or February, I happen, out in
the fields, to ransack the Spider's dwelling, after the rain, snow and
frost have battered it and, as a rule, dismantled the bastion at the
entrance, I always find her at home, still full of vigour, still
carrying her family. This vehicular upbringing lasts five or six months
at least, without interruption. The celebrated American carrier, the
Opossum, who emancipates her offspring after a few weeks' carting, cuts
a poor figure beside the Lycosa. What do the little ones eat, on the maternal spine? Nothing, so far
as I know.