The youngsters, on their side, are unable to distinguish between what
is permitted and forbidden. Remarkable acrobats that they are, they
climb on the first Spider that comes along, even when of a different
species, provided that she be of a fair size. I place them in the
presence of a big Epeira marked with a white cross on a pale-orange
ground (Epeira pallida, OLIV.). The little ones, as soon as
they are dislodged from the back of the Lycosa their mother, clamber up
the stranger without hesitation. Intolerant of these familiarities, the Spider shakes the leg
encroached upon and flings the intruders to a distance. The assault is
doggedly resumed, to such good purpose that a dozen succeed in hoisting
themselves to the top. The Epeira, who is not accustomed to the tickling
of such a load, turns over on her back and rolls on the ground in the
manner of a donkey when his hide is itching. Some are lamed, some are
even crushed. This does not deter the others, who repeat the escalade as
soon as the Epeira is on her legs again. Then come more somersaults,
more rollings on the back, until the giddy swarm are all discomfited and
leave the Spider in peace. CHAPTER IV:
THE NARBONNE LYCOSA: THE BURROW

Michelet {23} has told us how, as a printer's apprentice
in a cellar, he established amicable relations with a Spider. At a
certain hour of the day, a ray of sunlight would glint through the
window of the gloomy workshop and light up the little compositor's case. Then his eight-legged neighbour would come down from her web and take
her share of the sunshine on the edge of the case. The boy did not
interfere with her; he welcomed the trusting visitor as a friend and as
a pleasant diversion from the long monotony. When we lack the society of
our fellow-men, we take refuge in that of animals, without always losing
by the change. I do not, thank God, suffer from the melancholy of a cellar: my
solitude is gay with light and verdure; I attend, whenever I please, the
fields' high festival, the Thrushes' concert, the Crickets' symphony;
and yet my friendly commerce with the Spider is marked by an even
greater devotion than the young typesetter's. I admit her to the
intimacy of my study, I make room for her among my books, I set her in
the sun on my window-ledge, I visit her assiduously at her home, in the
country. The object of our relations is not to create a means of escape
from the petty worries of life, pin-pricks whereof I have my share like
other men, a very large share, indeed; I propose to submit to the Spider
a host of questions whereto, at times, she condescends to reply. To what fair problems does not the habit of frequenting her give
rise! To set them forth worthily, the marvellous art which the little
printer was to acquire were not too much. One needs the pen of a
Michelet; and I have but a rough, blunt pencil. Let us try,
nevertheless: even when poorly clad, truth is still beautiful. I will therefore once more take up the story of the Spider's
instinct, a story of which the preceding chapters have given but a very
rough idea. Since I wrote those earlier essays, my field of observation
has been greatly extended.