A large wire-gauze cover
rests on the soil in the pan and prevents escape. In any case, the watch, in this respect, makes no demands upon my
diligence. The prisoner is satisfied with her new abode and manifests no
regret for her natural burrow. There is no attempt at flight on her
part. Let me not omit to add that each pan must receive not more than
one inhabitant. The Lycosa is very intolerant. To her, a neighbour is
fair game, to be eaten without scruple when one has might on one's side. Time was when, unaware of this fierce intolerance, which is more savage
still at breeding-time, I saw hideous orgies perpetrated in my
overstocked cages. I shall have occasion to describe those tragedies
later. Let us meanwhile consider the isolated Lycosae. They do not touch up
the dwelling which I have moulded for them with a bit of reed; at most,
now and again, perhaps with the object of forming a lounge or bedroom at
the bottom, they fling out a few loads of rubbish. But all, little by
little, build the kerb that is to edge the mouth. I have given them plenty of first-rate materials, far superior to
those which they use when left to their own resources. These consist,
first, for the foundations, of little smooth stones, some of which are
as large as an almond. With this road-metal are mingled short strips of
raphia, or palm-fibre, flexible ribbons, easily bent. These stand for
the Spider's usual basket-work, consisting of slender stalks and dry
blades of grass. Lastly, by way of an unprecedented treasure, never yet
employed by a Lycosa, I place at my captives' disposal some thick
threads of wool, cut into inch lengths. As I wish, at the same time, to find out whether my animals, with the
magnificent lenses of their eyes, are able to distinguish colours and
prefer one colour to another, I mix up bits of wool of different hues:
there are red, green, white and yellow pieces. If the Spider have any
preference, she can choose where she pleases. The Lycosa always works at night, a regrettable circumstance, which
does not allow me to follow the worker's methods. I see the result; and
that is all. Were I to visit the building-yard by the light of a
lantern, I should be no wiser. The animal, which is very shy, would at
once dive into her lair; and I should have lost my sleep for nothing. Furthermore, she is not a very diligent labourer; she likes to take her
time. Two or three bits of wool or raphia placed in position represent a
whole night's work. And to this slowness we must add long spells of
utter idleness.