Everything at the
threshold of the burrow is used indiscriminately: fragments of Locust,
vegetable remains and especially particles of earth. A Dragon-fly's head
baked by the sun is as good as a bit of gravel and no better. And so, with silk and all sorts of tiny materials, the Lycosa builds
a lidded cap to the entrance of her home. I am not well acquainted with
the reasons that prompt her to barricade herself indoors, particularly
as the seclusion is only temporary and varies greatly in duration. I
obtain precise details from a tribe of Lycosae wherewith the enclosure,
as will be seen later, happens to be thronged in consequence of my
investigations into the dispersal of the family. At the time of the tropical August heat, I see my Lycosae, now this
batch, now that, building, at the entrance to the burrow, a convex
ceiling, which is difficult to distinguish from the surrounding soil. Can it be to protect themselves from the too-vivid light? This is
doubtful; for, a few days later, though the power of the sun remain the
same, the roof is broken open and the Spider reappears at her door,
where she revels in the torrid heat of the dog-days. Later, when October comes, if it be rainy weather, she retires once
more under a roof, as though she were guarding herself against the damp. Let us not be too positive of anything, however: often, when it is
raining hard, the Spider bursts her ceiling and leaves her house open to
the skies. Perhaps the lid is only put on for serious domestic events, notably
for the laying. I do, in fact, perceive young Lycosae who shut
themselves in before they have attained the dignity of motherhood and
who reappear, some time later, with the bag containing the eggs hung to
their stern. The inference that they close the door with the object of
securing greater quiet while spinning the maternal cocoon would not be
in keeping with the unconcern displayed by the majority. I find some who
lay their eggs in an open burrow; I come upon some who weave their
cocoon and cram it with eggs in the open air, before they even own a
residence. In short, I do not succeed in fathoming the reasons that
cause the burrow to be closed, no matter what the weather, hot or cold,
wet or dry. The fact remains that the lid is broken and repaired repeatedly,
sometimes on the same day.