We shall dine when we can; but we shall end by
dining. The Lycosa, therefore, well aware of these lingering eventualities,
waits and is not unduly distressed by a prolonged abstinence. She has an
accommodating stomach, which is satisfied to be gorged to-day and to
remain empty afterwards for goodness knows how long. I have sometimes
neglected my catering-duties for weeks at a time; and my boarders have
been none the worse for it. After a more or less protracted fast, they
do not pine away, but are smitten with a wolf-like hunger. All these
ravenous eaters are alike: they guzzle to excess to-day, in anticipation
of to-morrow's dearth. In her youth, before she has a burrow, the Lycosa earns her living in
another manner. Clad in grey like her elders, but without the
black-velvet apron which she receives on attaining the marriageable age,
she roams among the scrubby grass. This is true hunting. Should a
suitable quarry heave in sight, the Spider pursues it, drives it from
its shelters, follows it hot-foot. The fugitive gains the heights, makes
as though to fly away. He has not the time. With an upward leap, the
Lycosa grabs him before he can rise. I am charmed with the agility wherewith my yearling boarders seize
the Flies which I provide for them. In vain does the Fly take refuge a
couple of inches up, on some blade of grass. With a sudden spring into
the air, the Spider pounces on the prey. No Cat is quicker in catching
her Mouse. But these are the feats of youth not handicapped by obesity. Later,
when a heavy paunch, dilated with eggs and silk, has to be trailed
along, those gymnastic performances become impracticable. The Lycosa
then digs herself a settled abode, a hunting-box, and sits in her
watch-tower, on the look-out for game. When and how is the burrow obtained wherein the Lycosa, once a
vagrant, now a stay-at-home, is to spend the remainder of her long life? We are in autumn, the weather is already turning cool. This is how the
Field Cricket sets to work: as long as the days are fine and the nights
not too cold, the future chorister of spring rambles over the fallows,
careless of a local habitation. At critical moments, the cover of a dead
leaf provides him with a temporary shelter. In the end, the burrow, the
permanent dwelling, is dug as the inclement season draws nigh. The Lycosa shares the Cricket's views: like him, she finds a thousand
pleasures in the vagabond life. With September comes the nuptial badge,
the black-velvet bib. The Spiders meet at night, by the soft moonlight:
they romp together, they eat the beloved shortly after the wedding; by
day, they scour the country, they track the game on the short-pile,
grassy carpet, they take their fill of the joys of the sun.