That is much
better than solitary meditation at the bottom of a well. And so it is
not rare to see young mothers dragging their bag of eggs, or even
already carrying their family, and as yet without a home. In October, it is time to settle down. We then, in fact, find two
sorts of burrows, which differ in diameter. The larger, bottle-neck
burrows belong to the old matrons, who have owned their house for two
years at least. The smaller, of the width of a thick lead-pencil,
contain the young mothers, born that year. By dint of long and leisurely
alterations, the novice's earths will increase in depth as well as in
diameter and become roomy abodes, similar to those of the grandmothers. In both, we find the owner and her family, the latter sometimes already
hatched and sometimes still enclosed in the satin wallet. Seeing no digging-tools, such as the excavation of the dwelling
seemed to me to require, I wondered whether the Lycosa might not avail
herself of some chance gallery, the work of the Cicada or the
Earth-worm. This ready-made tunnel, thought I, must shorten the labours
of the Spider, who appears to be so badly off for tools; she would only
have to enlarge it and put it in order. I was wrong: the burrow is
excavated, from start to finish, by her unaided labour. Then where are the digging-implements? We think of the legs, of the
claws. We think of them, but reflection tells us that tools such as
these would not do: they are too long and too difficult to wield in a
confined space. What is required is the miner's short-handled pick,
wherewith to drive hard, to insert, to lever and to extract; what is
required is the sharp point that enters the earth and crumbles it into
fragments. There remain the Lycosa's fangs, delicate weapons which we at
first hesitate to associate with such work, so illogical does it seem to
dig a pit with surgeon's scalpels. The fangs are a pair of sharp, curved points, which, when at rest,
crook like a finger and take shelter between two strong pillars. The Cat
sheathes her claws under the velvet of the paw, to preserve their edge
and sharpness. In the same way, the Lycosa protects her poisoned daggers
by folding them within the case of two powerful columns, which come
plumb on the surface and contain the muscles that work them. Well, this surgical outfit, intended for stabbing the jugular artery
of the prey, suddenly becomes a pick-axe and does rough navvy's work. To
witness the underground digging is impossible; but we can, at least,
with the exercise of a little patience, see the rubbish carted away. If
I watch my captives, without tiring, at a very early hour–for the work
takes place mostly at night and at long intervals–in the end I catch
them coming up with a load. Contrary to what I expected, the legs take
no part in the carting. It is the mouth that acts as the barrow. A tiny
ball of earth is held between the fangs and is supported by the palpi,
or feelers, which are little arms employed in the service of the
mouth-parts. The Lycosa descends cautiously from her turret, goes to
some distance to get rid of her burden and quickly dives down again to
bring up more. We have seen enough: we know that the Lycosa's fangs, those lethal
weapons, are not afraid to bite into clay and gravel. They knead the
excavated rubbish into pellets, take up the mass of earth and carry it
outside. The rest follows naturally; it is the fangs that dig, delve and
extract. How finely-tempered they must be, not to be blunted by this
well-sinker's work and to do duty presently in the surgical operation of
stabbing the neck! I have said that the repairs and extensions of the burrow are made at
long intervals. From time to time, the circular parapet receives
additions and becomes a little higher; less frequently still, the
dwelling is enlarged and deepened. As a rule, the mansion remains as it
was for a whole season. Towards the end of winter, in March more than at
any other period, the Lycosa seems to wish to give herself a little more
space. This is the moment to subject her to certain tests. We know that the Field Cricket, when removed from his burrow and
caged under conditions that would allow him to dig himself a new home
should the fit seize him, prefers to tramp from one casual shelter to
another, or rather abandons every idea of creating a permanent
residence. There is a short season whereat the instinct for building a
subterranean gallery is imperatively aroused. When this season is past,
the excavating artist, if accidentally deprived of his abode, becomes a
wandering Bohemian, careless of a lodging. He has forgotten his talents
and he sleeps out. That the bird, the nest-builder, should neglect its art when it has
no brood to care for is perfectly logical: it builds for its family, not
for itself. But what shall we say of the Cricket, who is exposed to a
thousand mishaps when away from home? The protection of a roof would be
of great use to him; and the giddy-pate does not give it a thought,
though he is very strong and more capable than ever of digging with his
powerful jaws. What reason can we allege for this neglect?