For all your meditative air, you cannot solve the problem of how to
reconstruct that which is vanished and gone. Let us now see what we can do with younger Lycosae, who are at the
burrowing-stage. I dig out five or six at the end of February. They are
half the size of the old ones; their burrows are equal in diameter to my
little finger. Rubbish quite fresh-spread around the pit bears witness
to the recent date of the excavations. Relegated to their wire cages, these young Lycosae behave differently
according as the soil placed at their disposal is or is not already
provided with a burrow made by me. A burrow is hardly the word: I give
them but the nucleus of a shaft, about an inch deep, to lure them on. When in possession of this rudimentary lair, the Spider does not
hesitate to pursue the work which I have interrupted in the fields. At
night, she digs with a will. I can see this by the heap of rubbish flung
aside. She at last obtains a house to suit her, a house surmounted by
the usual turret. The others, on the contrary, those Spiders for whom the thrust of my
pencil has not contrived an entrance-hall representing, to a certain
extent, the natural gallery whence I dislodged them, absolutely refuse
to work; and they die, notwithstanding the abundance of provisions. The first pursue the season's task. They were digging when I caught
them; and, carried away by the enthusiasm of their activity, they go on
digging inside my cages. Taken in by my decoy-shaft, they deepen the
imprint of the pencil as though they were deepening their real
vestibule. They do not begin their labours over again; they continue
them. The second, not having this inducement, this semblance of a burrow
mistaken for their own work, forsake the idea of digging and allow
themselves to die, because they would have to travel back along the
chain of actions and to resume the pick-strokes of the start. To begin
all over again requires reflection, a quality wherewith they are not
endowed. To the insect–and we have seen this in many earlier cases–what is
done is done and cannot be taken up again. The hands of a watch do not
move backwards. The insect behaves in much the same way. Its activity
urges it in one direction, ever forwards, without allowing it to retrace
its steps, even when an accident makes this necessary. What the Mason-bees and the others taught us erewhile the Lycosa now
confirms in her manner. Incapable of taking fresh pains to build herself
a second dwelling, when the first is done for, she will go on the tramp,
she will break into a neighbour's house, she will run the risk of being
eaten should she not prove the stronger, but she will never think of
making herself a home by starting afresh. What a strange intellect is that of the animal, a mixture of
mechanical routine and subtle brain-power! Does it contain gleams that
contrive, wishes that pursue a definite object? Following in the wake of
so many others, the Lycosa warrants us in entertaining a doubt. CHAPTER V:
THE NARBONNE LYCOSA: THE FAMILY

For three weeks and more, the Lycosa trails the bag of eggs hanging
to her spinnerets. The reader will remember the experiments described in
the third chapter of this volume, particularly those with the cork ball
and the thread pellet which the Spider so foolishly accepts in exchange
for the real pill. Well, this exceedingly dull-witted mother, satisfied
with aught that knocks against her heels, is about to make us wonder at
her devotion. Whether she come up from her shaft to lean upon the kerb and bask in
the sun, whether she suddenly retire underground in the face of danger,
or whether she be roaming the country before settling down, never does
she let go her precious bag, that very cumbrous burden in walking,
climbing or leaping. If, by some accident, it become detached from the
fastening to which it is hung, she flings herself madly on her treasure
and lovingly embraces it, ready to bite whoso would take it from her. I
myself am sometimes the thief. I then hear the points of the
poison-fangs grinding against the steel of my pincers, which tug in one
direction while the Lycosa tugs in the other. But let us leave the
animal alone: with a quick touch of the spinnerets, the pill is restored
to its place; and the Spider strides off, still menacing. Towards the end of summer, all the householders, old or young,
whether in captivity on the window-sill or at liberty in the paths of
the enclosure, supply me daily with the following improving sight. In
the morning, as soon as the sun is hot and beats upon their burrow, the
anchorites come up from the bottom with their bag and station themselves
at the opening. Long siestas on the threshold in the sun are the order
of the day throughout the fine season; but, at the present time, the
position adopted is a different one. Formerly, the Lycosa came out into
the sun for her own sake. Leaning on the parapet, she had the front half
of her body outside the pit and the hinder half inside. The eyes took their fill of light; the belly remained in the dark. When carrying her egg-bag, the Spider reverses the posture: the front is
in the pit, the rear outside. With her hind-legs she holds the white
pill bulging with germs lifted above the entrance; gently she turns and
returns it, so as to present every side to the life-giving rays. And
this goes on for half the day, so long as the temperature is high; and
it is repeated daily, with exquisite patience, during three or four
weeks. To hatch its eggs, the bird covers them with the quilt of its
breast; it strains them to the furnace of its heart. The Lycosa turns
hers in front of the hearth of hearths, she gives them the sun as an
incubator. In the early days of September, the young ones, who have been some
time hatched, are ready to come out. The pill rips open along the middle
fold. We read of the origin of this fold in an earlier chapter. {24} Does the mother, feeling the brood quicken
inside the satin wrapper, herself break open the vessel at the opportune
moment? It seems probable. On the other hand, there may be a spontaneous
bursting, such as we shall see later in the Banded Epeira's balloon, a
tough wallet which opens a breach of its own accord, long after the
mother has ceased to exist. The whole family emerges from the bag straightway. Then and there,
the youngsters climb to the mother's back. As for the empty bag, now a
worthless shred, it is flung out of the burrow; the Lycosa does not give
it a further thought. Huddled together, sometimes in two or three
layers, according to their number, the little ones cover the whole back
of the mother, who, for seven or eight months to come, will carry her
family night and day. Nowhere can we hope to see a more edifying
domestic picture than that of the Lycosa clothed in her young. From time to time, I meet a little band of gipsies passing along the
high-road on their way to some neighbouring fair. The new-born babe
mewls on the mother's breast, in a hammock formed out of a kerchief. The
last-weaned is carried pick-a-back; a third toddles clinging to its
mother's skirts; others follow closely, the biggest in the rear,
ferreting in the blackberry-laden hedgerows. It is a magnificent
spectacle of happy-go-lucky fruitfulness.