They go their way, penniless
and rejoicing. The sun is hot and the earth is fertile. But how this picture pales before that of the Lycosa, that
incomparable gipsy whose brats are numbered by the hundred! And one and
all of them, from September to April, without a moment's respite, find
room upon the patient creature's back, where they are content to lead a
tranquil life and to be carted about. The little ones are very good; none moves, none seeks a quarrel with
his neighbours. Clinging together, they form a continuous drapery, a
shaggy ulster under which the mother becomes unrecognizable. Is it an
animal, a fluff of wool, a cluster of small seeds fastened to one
another? 'Tis impossible to tell at the first glance. The equilibrium of this living blanket is not so firm but that falls
often occur, especially when the mother climbs from indoors and comes to
the threshold to let the little ones take the sun. The least brush
against the gallery unseats a part of the family. The mishap is not
serious. The Hen, fidgeting about her Chicks, looks for the strays,
calls them, gathers them together. The Lycosa knows not these maternal
alarms. Impassively, she leaves those who drop off to manage their own
difficulty, which they do with wonderful quickness. Commend me to those
youngsters for getting up without whining, dusting themselves and
resuming their seat in the saddle! The unhorsed ones promptly find a leg
of the mother, the usual climbing-pole; they swarm up it as fast as they
can and recover their places on the bearer's back. The living bark of
animals is reconstructed in the twinkling of an eye. To speak here of mother-love were, I think, extravagant. The Lycosa's
affection for her offspring hardly surpasses that of the plant, which is
unacquainted with any tender feeling and nevertheless bestows the nicest
and most delicate care upon its seeds. The animal, in many cases, knows
no other sense of motherhood. What cares the Lycosa for her brood! She
accepts another's as readily as her own; she is satisfied so long as her
back is burdened with a swarming crowd, whether it issue from her
ovaries or elsewhence. There is no question here of real maternal
affection. I have described elsewhere the prowess of the Copris {25} watching over cells that are not her
handiwork and do not contain her offspring. With a zeal which even the
additional labour laid upon her does not easily weary, she removes the
mildew from the alien dung-balls, which far exceed the regular nests in
number; she gently scrapes and polishes and repairs them; she listens to
them attentively and enquires by ear into each nursling's progress. Her
real collection could not receive greater care. Her own family or
another's: it is all one to her. The Lycosa is equally indifferent. I take a hair-pencil and sweep the
living burden from one of my Spiders, making it fall close to another
covered with her little ones. The evicted youngsters scamper about, find
the new mother's legs outspread, nimbly clamber up these and mount on
the back of the obliging creature, who quietly lets them have their
way. They slip in among the others, or, when the layer is too thick, push
to the front and pass from the abdomen to the thorax and even to the
head, though leaving the region of the eyes uncovered. It does not do to
blind the bearer: the common safety demands that. They know this and
respect the lenses of the eyes, however populous the assembly be. The
whole animal is now covered with a swarming carpet of young, all except
the legs, which must preserve their freedom of action, and the under
part of the body, where contact with the ground is to be feared. My pencil forces a third family upon the already overburdened Spider;
and this too is peacefully accepted. The youngsters huddle up closer,
lie one on top of the other in layers and room is found for all. The
Lycosa has lost the last semblance of an animal, has become a nameless
bristling thing that walks about. Falls are frequent and are followed by
continual climbings. I perceive that I have reached the limits not of the bearer's
good-will, but of equilibrium. The Spider would adopt an indefinite
further number of foundlings, if the dimensions of her back afforded
them a firm hold. Let us be content with this. Let us restore each
family to its mother, drawing at random from the lot. There must
necessarily be interchanges, but that is of no importance: real children
and adopted children are the same thing in the Lycosa's eyes. One would like to know if, apart from my artifices, in circumstances
where I do not interfere, the good-natured dry-nurse sometimes burdens
herself with a supplementary family; it would also be interesting to
learn what comes of this association of lawful offspring and strangers. I have ample materials wherewith to obtain an answer to both questions.