Well, while the mother munches, chews, expresses the juices and
swallows, the youngsters do not budge from their camping-ground on her
back. Not one quits its place nor gives a sign of wishing to slip down
and join in the meal. Nor does the mother extend an invitation to them
to come and recruit themselves, nor put any broken victuals aside for
them. She feeds and the others look on, or rather remain indifferent to
what is happening. Their perfect quiet during the Lycosa's feast points
to the posession of a stomach that knows no cravings. Then with what are they sustained, during their seven months'
upbringing on the mother's back? One conceives a notion of exudations
supplied by the bearer's body, in which case the young would feed on
their mother, after the manner of parasitic vermin, and gradually drain
her strength. We must abandon this notion. Never are they seen to put their mouths
to the skin that should be a sort of teat to them. On the other hand,
the Lycosa, far from being exhausted and shrivelling, keeps perfectly
well and plump. She has the same pot-belly when she finishes rearing her
young as when she began. She has not lost weight: far from it; on the
contrary, she has put on flesh: she has gained the wherewithal to beget
a new family next summer, one as numerous as to-day's. Once more, with what do the little ones keep up their strength? We do
not like to suggest reserves supplied by the egg as rectifying the
beastie's expenditure of vital force, especially when we consider that
those reserves, themselves so close to nothing, must be economized in
view of the silk, a material of the highest importance, of which a
plentiful use will be made presently. There must be other powers at play
in the tiny animal's machinery. Total abstinence from food could be understood, if it were
accompanied by inertia: immobility is not life. But the young Lycosae,
although usually quiet on their mother's back, are at all times ready
for exercise and for agile swarming. When they fall from the maternal
perambulator, they briskly pick themselves up, briskly scramble up a leg
and make their way to the top. It is a splendidly nimble and spirited
performance. Besides, once seated, they have to keep a firm balance in
the mass; they have to stretch and stiffen their little limbs in order
to hang on to their neighbours. As a matter of fact, there is no
absolute rest for them. Now physiology teaches us that not a fibre works
without some expenditure of energy. The animal, which can be likened, in
no small measure, to our industrial machines, demands, on the one hand,
the renovation of its organism, which wears out with movement, and, on
the other, the maintenance of the heat transformed into action. We can
compare it with the locomotive-engine. As the iron horse performs its
work, it gradually wears out its pistons, its rods, its wheels, its
boiler-tubes, all of which have to be made good from time to time. The
founder and the smith repair it, supply it, so to speak, with ˜plastic
food,' the food that becomes embodied with the whole and forms part of
it. But, though it have just come from the engine-shop, it is still
inert. To acquire the power of movement, it must receive from the stoker
a supply of ˜energy-producing food;' in other words, he lights a few
shovelfuls of coal in its inside. This heat will produce mechanical
work.