Even so with the beast. As nothing is made from nothing, the egg
supplies first the materials of the new-born animal; then the plastic
food, the smith of living creatures, increases the body, up to a certain
limit, and renews it as it wears away. The stoker works at the same
time, without stopping. Fuel, the source of energy, makes but a short
stay in the system, where it is consumed and furnishes heat, whence
movement is derived. Life is a fire-box. Warmed by its food, the animal
machine moves, walks, runs, jumps, swims, flies, sets its locomotory
apparatus going in a thousand manners. To return to the young Lycosae, they grow no larger until the period
of their emancipation. I find them at the age of seven months the same
as when I saw them at their birth. The egg supplied the materials
necessary for their tiny frames; and, as the loss of waste substance is,
for the moment, excessively small, or even nil, additional
plastic food is not needed so long as the beastie does not grow. In this
respect, the prolonged abstinence presents no difficulty. But there
remains the question of energy-producing food, which is indispensable,
for the little Lycosa moves, when necessary, and very actively at that. To what shall we attribute the heat expended upon action, when the
animal takes absolutely no nourishment? An idea suggests itself. We say to ourselves that, without being
life, a machine is something more than matter, for man has added a
little of his mind to it. Now the iron beast, consuming its ration of
coal, is really browsing the ancient foliage of arborescent ferns in
which solar energy has accumulated. Beasts of flesh and blood act no otherwise. Whether they mutually
devour one another or levy tribute on the plant, they invariably quicken
themselves with the stimulant of the sun's heat, a heat stored in grass,
fruit, seed and those which feed on such. The sun, the soul of the
universe, is the supreme dispenser of energy. Instead of being served up through the intermediary of food and
passing through the ignominious circuit of gastric chemistry, could not
this solar energy penetrate the animal directly and charge it with
activity, even as the battery charges an accumulator with power? Why not
live on sun, seeing that, after all, we find naught but sun in the
fruits which we consume? Chemical science, that bold revolutionary, promises to provide us
with synthetic food-stuffs. The laboratory and the factory will take the
place of the farm. Why should not physical science step in as well? It
would leave the preparation of plastic food to the chemist's retorts; it
would reserve for itself that of energy-producing food, which, reduced
to its exact terms, ceases to be matter. With the aid of some ingenious
apparatus, it would pump into us our daily ration of solar energy, to be
later expended in movement, whereby the machine would be kept going
without the often painful assistance of the stomach and its adjuncts. What a delightful world, where one would lunch off a ray of
sunshine! Is it a dream, or the anticipation of a remote reality?