The problem
is one of the most important that science can set us. Let us first hear
the evidence of the young Lycosae regarding its possibilities. For seven months, without any material nourishment, they expend
strength in moving. To wind up the mechanism of their muscles, they
recruit themselves direct with heat and light. During the time when she
was dragging the bag of eggs behind her, the mother, at the best moments
of the day, came and held up her pill to the sun. With her two
hind-legs, she lifted it out of the ground, into the full light; slowly
she turned it and returned it, so that every side might receive its
share of the vivifying rays. Well, this bath of life, which awakened the
germs, is now prolonged to keep the tender babes active. Daily, if the sky be clear, the Lycosa, carrying her young, comes up
from the burrow, leans on the kerb and spends long hours basking in the
sun. Here, on their mother's back, the youngsters stretch their limbs
delightedly, saturate themselves with heat, take in reserves of motor
power, absorb energy. They are motionless; but, if I only blow upon them, they stampede as
nimbly as though a hurricane were passing. Hurriedly, they disperse;
hurriedly, they reassemble: a proof that, without material nourishment,
the little animal machine is always at full pressure, ready to work. When the shade comes, mother and sons go down again, surfeited with
solar emanations. The feast of energy at the Sun Tavern is finished for
the day. It is repeated in the same way daily, if the weather be mild,
until the hour of emancipation comes, followed by the first mouthfuls of
solid food. CHAPTER VI:
THE NARBONNE LYCOSA: THE CLIMBING-INSTINCT

The month of March comes to an end; and the departure of the
youngsters begins, in glorious weather, during the hottest hours of the
morning. Laden with her swarming burden, the mother Lycosa is outside
her burrow, squatting on the parapet at the entrance. She lets them do
as they please; as though indifferent to what is happening, she exhibits
neither encouragement nor regret. Whoso will goes; whoso will remains
behind. First these, then those, according as they feel themselves duly
soaked with sunshine, the little ones leave the mother in batches, run
about for a moment on the ground and then quickly reach the trellis-work
of the cage, which they climb with surprising alacrity. They pass
through the meshes, they clamber right to the top of the citadel. All,
with not one exception, make for the heights, instead of roaming on the
ground, as might reasonably be expected from the eminently earthly
habits of the Lycosae; all ascend the dome, a strange procedure whereof
I do not yet guess the object. I receive a hint from the upright ring that finishes the top of the
cage. The youngsters hurry to it. It represents the porch of their
gymnasium. They hang out threads across the opening; they stretch others
from the ring to the nearest points of the trellis-work. On these
foot-bridges, they perform slack-rope exercises amid endless comings and
goings. The tiny legs open out from time to time and straddle as though
to reach the most distant points. I begin to realize that they are
acrobats aiming at loftier heights than those of the dome. I top the trellis with a branch that doubles the attainable height. The bustling crowd hastily scrambles up it, reaches the tip of the
topmost twigs and thence sends out threads that attach themselves to
every surrounding object. These form so many suspension-bridges; and my
beasties nimbly run along them, incessantly passing to and fro. One
would say that they wished to climb higher still. I will endeavour to
satisfy their desires. I take a nine-foot reed, with tiny branches spreading right up to the
top, and place it above the cage. The little Lycosae clamber to the very
summit. Here, longer threads are produced from the rope-yard and are now
left to float, anon converted into bridges by the mere contact of the
free end with the neighbouring supports. The rope-dancers embark upon
them and form garlands which the least breath of air swings daintily. The thread is invisible when it does not come between the eyes and the
sun; and the whole suggests rows of Gnats dancing an aerial ballet. Then, suddenly, teased by the air-currents, the delicate mooring
breaks and flies through space. Behold the emigrants off and away,
clinging to their thread. If the wind be favourable, they can land at
great distances. Their departure is thus continued for a week or two, in
bands more or less numerous, according to the temperature and the
brightness of the day. If the sky be overcast, none dreams of leaving. The travellers need the kisses of the sun, which give energy and
vigour. At last, the whole family has disappeared, carried afar by its
flying-ropes. The mother remains alone. The loss of her offspring hardly
seems to distress her. She retains her usual colour and plumpness, which
is a sign that the maternal exertions have not been too much for
her. I also notice an increased fervour in the chase. While burdened with
her family, she was remarkably abstemious, accepting only with great
reserve the game placed at her disposal. The coldness of the season may
have militated against copious refections; perhaps also the weight of
the little ones hampered her movements and made her more discreet in
attacking the prey. To-day, cheered by the fine weather and able to move freely, she
hurries up from her lair each time I set a tit-bit to her liking buzzing
at the entrance to her burrow; she comes and takes from my fingers the
savoury Locust, the portly Anoxia; {26} and this performance is repeated daily,
whenever I have the leisure to devote to it. After a frugal winter, the
time has come for plentiful repasts. This appetite tells us that the animal is not at the point of death;
one does not feast in this way with a played-out stomach. My boarders
are entering in full vigour upon their fourth year.