In the winter, in
the fields, I used to find large mothers, carting their young, and
others not much more than half their size. The whole series, therefore,
represented three generations. And now, in my earthenware pans, after
the departure of the family, the old matrons still carry on and continue
as strong as ever. Every outward appearance tells us that, after
becoming great-grandmothers, they still keep themselves fit for
propagating their species. The facts correspond with these anticipations. When September
returns, my captives are dragging a bag as bulky as that of last year. For a long time, even when the eggs of the others have been hatched for
some weeks past, the mothers come daily to the threshold of the burrow
and hold out their wallets for incubation by the sun. Their perseverance
is not rewarded: nothing issues from the satin purse; nothing stirs
within. Why? Because, in the prison of my cages, the eggs have had no
father. Tired of waiting and at last recognizing the barrenness of their
produce, they push the bag of eggs outside the burrow and trouble about
it no more. At the return of spring, by which time the family, if
developed according to rule, would have been emancipated, they die. The
mighty Spider of the waste-lands, therefore, attains to an even more
patriarchal age than her neighbour the Sacred Beetle: {27} she lives for five years at the very
least. Let us leave the mothers to their business and return to the
youngsters. It is not without a certain surprise that we see the little
Lycosae, at the first moment of their emancipation, hasten to ascend the
heights. Destined to live on the ground, amidst the short grass, and
afterwards to settle in the permanent abode, a pit, they start by being
enthusiastic acrobats. Before descending to the low levels, their normal
dwelling-place, they affect lofty altitudes. To rise higher and ever higher is their first need. I have not, it
seems, exhausted the limit of their climbing-instinct even with a
nine-foot pole, suitably furnished with branches to facilitate the
escalade. Those who have eagerly reached the very top wave their legs,
fumble in space as though for yet higher stalks. It behoves us to begin
again and under better conditions. Although the Narbonne Lycosa, with her temporary yearning for the
heights, is more interesting than other Spiders, by reason of the fact
that her usual habitation is underground, she is not so striking at
swarming-time, because the youngsters, instead of all migrating at once,
leave the mother at different periods and in small batches. The sight
will be a finer one with the common Garden or Cross Spider, the Diadem
Epeira (Epeira diadema, LIN.), decorated with three white
crosses on her back. She lays her eggs in November and dies with the first cold snap. She
is denied the Lycosa's longevity. She leaves the natal wallet early one
spring and never sees the following spring. This wallet, which contains
the eggs, has none of the ingenious structure which we admired in the
Banded and in the Silky Epeira. No longer do we see a graceful
balloon-shape nor yet a paraboloid with a starry base; no longer a
tough, waterproof satin stuff; no longer a swan's-down resembling a
fleecy, russet cloud; no longer an inner keg in which the eggs are
packed. The art of stout fabrics and of walls within walls is unknown
here. The work of the Cross Spider is a pill of white silk, wrought into a
yielding felt, through which the new-born Spiders will easily work their
way, without the aid of the mother, long since dead, and without having
to rely upon its bursting at the given hour. It is about the size of a
damson. We can judge the method of manufacture from the structure. Like the
Lycosa, whom we saw, in Chapter III., at work in one of my earthenware
pans, the Cross Spider, on the support supplied by a few threads
stretched between the nearest objects, begins by making a shallow saucer
of sufficient thickness to dispense with subsequent corrections. The
process is easily guessed.