The tip of the abdomen goes up and down, down
and up with an even beat, while the worker shifts her place a little. Each time, the spinnerets add a bit of thread to the carpet already
made. When the requisite thickness is obtained, the mother empties her
ovaries, in one continuous flow, into the centre of the bowl. Glued
together by their inherent moisture, the eggs, of a handsome
orange-yellow, form a ball-shaped heap. The work of the spinnerets is
resumed. The ball of germs is covered with a silk cap, fashioned in the
same way as the saucer. The two halves of the work are so well joined
that the whole constitutes an unbroken sphere. The Banded Epeira and the Silky Epeira, those experts in the
manufacture of rainproof textures, lay their eggs high up, on brushwood
and bramble, without shelter of any kind. The thick material of the
wallets is enough to protect the eggs from the inclemencies of the
winter, especially from damp. The Diadem Epeira, or Cross Spider, needs
a cranny for hers, which is contained in a non-waterproof felt. In a
heap of stones, well exposed to the sun, she will choose a large slab to
serve as a roof. She lodges her pill underneath it, in the company of
the hibernating Snail. More often still, she prefers the thick tangle of some dwarf shrub,
standing eight or nine inches high and retaining its leaves in winter. In the absence of anything better, a tuft of grass answers the purpose. Whatever the hiding-place, the bag of eggs is always near the ground,
tucked away as well as may be, amid the surrounding twigs. Save in the case of the roof supplied by a large stone, we see that
the site selected hardly satisfies proper hygienic needs. The Epeira
seems to realize this fact. By way of an additional protection, even
under a stone, she never fails to make a thatched roof for her eggs. She
builds them a covering with bits of fine, dry grass, joined together
with a little silk. The abode of the eggs becomes a straw wigwam. Good luck procures me two Cross Spiders' nests, on the edge of one of
the paths in the enclosure, among some tufts of ground-cypress, or
lavender-cotton. This is just what I wanted for my plans. The find is
all the more valuable as the period of the exodus is near at hand. I prepare two lengths of bamboo, standing about fifteen feet high and
clustered with little twigs from top to bottom. I plant one of them
straight up in the tuft, beside the first nest. I clear the surrounding
ground, because the bushy vegetation might easily, thanks to threads
carried by the wind, divert the emigrants from the road which I have
laid out for them. The other bamboo I set up in the middle of the yard,
all by itself, some few steps from any outstanding object. The second
nest is removed as it is, shrub and all, and placed at the bottom of the
tall, ragged distaff. The events expected are not long in coming. In the first fortnight in
May, a little earlier in one case, a little later in the other, the two
families, each presented with a bamboo climbing-pole, leave their
respective wallets. There is nothing remarkable about the mode of
egress. The precincts to be crossed consist of a very slack net-work,
through which the outcomers wriggle: weak little orange-yellow beasties,
with a triangular black patch upon their sterns. One morning is long
enough for the whole family to make its appearance. By degrees, the emancipated youngsters climb the nearest twigs,
clamber to the top, and spread a few threads. Soon, they gather in a
compact, ball-shaped cluster, the size of a walnut. They remain
motionless. With their heads plunged into the heap and their sterns
projecting, they doze gently, mellowing under the kisses of the sun. Rich in the possession of a thread in their belly as their sole
inheritance, they prepare to disperse over the wide world. Let us create a disturbance among the globular group by stirring it
with a straw. All wake up at once. The cluster softly dilates and
spreads, as though set in motion by some centrifugal force; it becomes a
transparent orb wherein thousands and thousands of tiny legs quiver and
shake, while threads are extended along the way to be followed. The
whole work resolves itself into a delicate veil which swallows up the
scattered family. We then see an exquisite nebula against whose
opalescent tapestry the tiny animals gleam like twinkling orange
stars. This straggling state, though it last for hours, is but temporary. If
the air grow cooler, if rain threaten, the spherical group reforms at
once. This is a protective measure. On the morning after a shower, I
find the families on either bamboo in as good condition as on the day
before. The silk veil and the pill formation have sheltered them well
enough from the downpour. Even so do Sheep, when caught in a storm in
the pastures, gather close, huddle together and make a common rampart of
their backs. The assembly into a ball-shaped mass is also the rule in calm, bright
weather, after the morning's exertions. In the afternoon, the climbers
collect at a higher point, where they weave a wide, conical tent, with
the end of a shoot for its top, and, gathered into a compact group,
spend the night there. Next day, when the heat returns, the ascent is
resumed in long files, following the shrouds which a few pioneers have
rigged and which those who come after elaborate with their own work. Collected nightly into a globular troop and sheltered under a fresh
tent, for three or four days, each morning, before the sun grows too
hot, my little emigrants thus raise themselves, stage by stage, on both
bamboos, until they reach the sun-unit, at fifteen feet above the
ground. The climb comes to an end for lack of foothold.