My devices have changed these conditions somewhat. My two bristling
poles stand at a distance from the surrounding shrubs, especially the
one which I planted in the middle of the yard. Bridges are out of the
question, for the threads flung into the air are not long enough. And so
the acrobats, eager to get away, keep on climbing, never come down
again, are impelled to seek in a higher position what they have failed
to find in a lower. The top of my two bamboos probably fails to
represent the limit of what my keen climbers are capable of
achieving. We shall see, in a moment, the object of this climbing-propensity,
which is a sufficiently remarkable instinct in the Garden Spiders, who
have as their domain the low-growing brushwood wherein their nets are
spread; it becomes a still more remarkable instinct in the Lycosa, who,
except at the moment when she leaves her mother's back, never quits the
ground and yet, in the early hours of her life, shows herself as ardent
a wooer of high places as the young Garden Spiders. Let us consider the Lycosa in particular. In her, at the moment of
the exodus, a sudden instinct arises, to disappear, as promptly and for
ever, a few hours later. This is the climbing-instinct, which is unknown
to the adult and soon forgotten by the emancipated youngling, doomed to
wander homeless, for many a long day, upon the ground. Neither of them
dreams of climbing to the top of a grass-stalk. The full-grown Spider
hunts trapper-fashion, ambushed in her tower; the young one hunts afoot
through the scrubby grass. In both cases there is no web and therefore
no need for lofty contact-points. They are not allowed to quit the
ground and climb the heights. Yet here we have the young Lycosa, wishing to leave the maternal
abode and to travel far afield by the easiest and swiftest methods,
suddenly becoming an enthusiastic climber. Impetuously she scales the
wire trellis of the cage where she was born; hurriedly she clambers to
the top of the tall mast which I have prepared for her. In the same way,
she would make for the summit of the bushes in her waste-land. We catch a glimpse of her object. From on high, finding a wide space
beneath her, she sends a thread floating. It is caught by the wind and
carries her hanging to it. We have our aeroplanes; she too possesses her
flying-machine. Once the journey is accomplished, naught remains of this
ingenious business. The climbing-instinct conies suddenly, at the hour
of need, and no less suddenly vanishes. CHAPTER
VII: THE SPIDERS' EXODUS

Seeds, when ripened in the fruit, are disseminated, that is to say,
scattered on the surface of the ground, to sprout in spots as yet
unoccupied and fill the expanses that realize favourable conditions. Amid the wayside rubbish grows one of the gourd family, Ecbalium
elaterium, commonly called the squirting cucumber, whose fruit–a
rough and extremely bitter little cucumber–is the size of a date. When
ripe, the fleshy core resolves into a liquid in which float the seeds. Compressed by the elastic rind of the fruit, this liquid bears upon the
base of the footstalk, which is gradually forced out, yields like a
stopper, breaks off and leaves an orifice through which a stream of
seeds and fluid pulp is suddenly ejected. If, with a novice hand, under
a scorching sun, you shake the plant laden with yellow fruit, you are
bound to be somewhat startled when you hear a noise among the leaves and
receive the cucumber's grapeshot in your face. The fruit of the garden balsam, when ripe, splits, at the least
touch, into five fleshy valves, which curl up and shoot their seeds to a
distance. The botanical name of Impatiens given to the balsam
alludes to this sudden dehiscence of the capsules, which cannot endure
contact without bursting. In the damp and shady places of the woods there exists a plant of the
same family which, for similar reasons, bears the even more expressive
name of Impatiens noli-me-tangere, or touch-me-not. The capsule of the pansy expands into three valves, each scooped out
like a boat and laden in the middle with two rows of seeds. When these
valves dry, the edges shrivel, press upon the grains and eject them. Light seeds, especially those of the order of Compositae, have
aeronautic apparatus–tufts, plumes, fly-wheels–which keep them up in the
air and enable them to take distant voyages. In this way, at the least
breath, the seeds of the dandelion, surmounted by a tuft of feathers,
fly from their dry receptacle and waft gently in the air. Next to the tuft, the wing is the most satisfactory contrivance for
dissemination by wind. Thanks to their membranous edge, which gives them
the appearance of thin scales, the seeds of the yellow wall-flower reach
high cornices of buildings, clefts of inaccessible rocks, crannies in
old walls, and sprout in the remnant of mould bequeathed by the mosses
that were there before them. The samaras, or keys, of the elm, formed of a broad, light fan with
the seed cased in its centre; those of the maple, joined in pairs and
resembling the unfurled wings of a bird; those of the ash, carved like
the blade of an oar, perform the most distant journeys when driven
before the storm. Like the plant, the insect also sometimes possesses
travelling-apparatus, means of dissemination that allow large families
to disperse quickly over the country, so that each member may have his
place in the sun without injuring his neighbour; and these apparatus,
these methods vie in ingenuity with the elm's samara, the
dandelion-plume and the catapult of the squirting cucumber. Let us consider, in particular, the Epeirae, those magnificent
Spiders who, to catch their prey, stretch, between one bush and the
next, great vertical sheets of meshes, resembling those of the fowler. The most remarkable in my district is the Banded Epeira (Epeira
fasciata, WALCK.), so prettily belted with yellow, black and
silvery white. Her nest, a marvel of gracefulness, is a satin bag,
shaped like a tiny pear. Its neck ends in a concave mouthpiece closed
with a lid, also of satin. Brown ribbons, in fanciful meridian waves,
adorn the object from pole to pole. Open the nest. We have seen, in an earlier chapter, {28} what we find there; let us retell the story. Under the outer wrapper, which is as stout as our woven stuffs and,
moreover, perfectly waterproof, is a russet eiderdown of exquisite
delicacy, a silky fluff resembling driven smoke. Nowhere does
mother-love prepare a softer bed. In the middle of this downy mass hangs a fine, silk, thimble-shaped
purse, closed with a movable lid. This contains the eggs, of a pretty
orange-yellow and about five hundred in number. All things considered, is not this charming edifice an animal fruit,
a germ-casket, a capsule to be compared with that of the plants? Only,
the Epeira's wallet, instead of seeds, holds eggs. The difference is
more apparent than real, for egg and grain are one. How will this living fruit, ripening in the heat beloved of the
Cicadae, manage to burst? How, above all, will dissemination take place? They are there in their hundreds.