They must separate, go far away,
isolate themselves in a spot where there is not too much fear of
competition among neighbours. How will they set to work to achieve this
distant exodus, weaklings that they are, taking such very tiny
steps? I receive the first answer from another and much earlier Epeira,
whose family I find, at the beginning of May, on a yucca in the
enclosure. The plant blossomed last year. The branching flower-stem,
some three feet high, still stands erect, though withered. On the green
leaves, shaped like a sword-blade, swarm two newly-hatched families. The
wee beasties are a dull yellow, with a triangular black patch upon their
stern. Later on, three white crosses, ornamenting the back, will tell me
that my find corresponds with the Cross or Diadem Spider (Epeira
diadema, WALCK.). When the sun reaches this part of the enclosure, one of the two
groups falls into a great state of flutter. Nimble acrobats that they
are, the little Spiders scramble up, one after the other, and reach the
top of the stem. Here, marches and countermarches, tumult and confusion
reign, for there is a slight breeze which throws the troop into
disorder. I see no connected manoeuvres. From the top of the stalk they
set out at every moment, one by one; they dart off suddenly; they fly
away, so to speak. It is as though they had the wings of a Gnat. Forthwith they disappear from view. Nothing that my eyes can see
explains this strange flight; for precise observation is impossible amid
the disturbing influences out of doors. What is wanted is a peaceful
atmosphere and the quiet of my study. I gather the family in a large box, which I close at once, and instal
it in the animals' laboratory, on a small table, two steps from the open
window. Apprised by what I have just seen of their propensity to resort
to the heights, I give my subjects a bundle of twigs, eighteen inches
tall, as a climbing-pole. The whole band hurriedly clambers up and
reaches the top. In a few moments there is not one lacking in the group
on high. The future will tell us the reason of this assemblage on the
projecting tips of the twigs. The little Spiders are now spinning here and there at random: they go
up, go down, come up again. Thus is woven a light veil of divergent
threads, a many-cornered web with the end of the branch for its summit
and the edge of the table for its base, some eighteen inches wide. This
veil is the drill-ground, the work-yard where the preparations for
departure are made. Here hasten the humble little creatures, running indefatigably to and
fro. When the sun shines upon them, they become gleaming specks and form
upon the milky background of the veil a sort of constellation, a reflex
of those remote points in the sky where the telescope shows us endless
galaxies of stars. The immeasurably small and the immeasurably large are
alike in appearance. It is all a matter of distance. But the living nebula is not composed of fixed stars; on the
contrary, its specks are in continual movement. The young Spiders never
cease shifting their position on the web. Many let themselves drop,
hanging by a length of thread, which the faller's weight draws from the
spinnerets. Then quickly they climb up again by the same thread, which
they wind gradually into a skein and lengthen by successive falls. Others confine themselves to running about the web and also give me the
impression of working at a bundle of ropes. The thread, as a matter of fact, does not flow from the spinneret; it
is drawn thence with a certain effort. It is a case of extraction, not
emission. To obtain her slender cord, the Spider has to move about and
haul, either by falling or by walking, even as the rope-maker steps
backwards when working his hemp. The activity now displayed on the
drill-ground is a preparation for the approaching dispersal. The
travellers are packing up. Soon we see a few Spiders trotting briskly between the table and the
open window. They are running in mid-air. But on what? If the light fall
favourably, I manage to see, at moments, behind the tiny animal, a
thread resembling a ray of light, which appears for an instant, gleams
and disappears. Behind, therefore, there is a mooring, only just
perceptible, if you look very carefully; but, in front, towards the
window, there is nothing to be seen at all. In vain I examine above, below, at the side; in vain I vary the
direction of the eye: I can distinguish no support for the little
creature to walk upon. One would think that the beastie were paddling in
space. It suggests the idea of a small bird, tied by the leg with a
thread and making a flying rush forwards. But, in this case, appearances are deceptive: flight is impossible;
the Spider must necessarily have a bridge whereby to cross the
intervening space. This bridge, which I cannot see, I can at least
destroy. I cleave the air with a ruler in front of the Spider making for
the window. That is quite enough: the tiny animal at once ceases to go
forward and falls. The invisible foot-plank is broken. My son, young
Paul, who is helping me, is astounded at this wave of the magic wand,
for not even he, with his fresh, young eyes, is able to see a support
ahead for the Spiderling to move along. In the rear, on the other hand, a thread is visible. The difference
is easily explained. Every Spider, as she goes, at the same time spins a
safety-cord which will guard the rope-walker against the risk of an
always possible fall. In the rear, therefore, the thread is of double
thickness and can be seen, whereas, in front, it is still single and
hardly perceptible to the eye. Obviously, this invisible foot-bridge is not flung out by the animal:
it is carried and unrolled by a gust of air. The Epeira, supplied with
this line, lets it float freely; and the wind, however softly blowing,
bears it along and unwinds it. Even so is the smoke from the bowl of a
pipe whirled up in the air. This floating thread has but to touch any object in the neighbourhood
and it will remain fixed to it. The suspension-bridge is thrown; and the
Spider can set out. The South-American Indians are said to cross the
abysses of the Cordilleras in travelling-cradles made of twisted
creepers; the little Spider passes through space on the invisible and
the imponderable. But to carry the end of the floating thread elsewhither a draught is
needed. At this moment, the draught exists between the door of my study
and the window, both of which are open. It is so slight that I do not
feel its; I only know of it by the smoke from my pipe, curling softly in
that direction.