A small chafing-dish is
lit at the foot of the table. My hands cannot feel the heat of it at the
level of the web whereon my Spiders are weaving. This is the very modest
fire which, with its column of rising air, shall unwind the threads and
carry them on high. Let us first enquire the direction and strength of the current. Dandelion-plumes, made lighter by the removal of their seeds, serve as
my guides. Released above the chafing-dish, on the level of the table,
they float slowly upwards and, for the most part, reach the ceiling. The
emigrants' lines should rise in the same way and even better. The thing is done: with the aid of nothing that is visible to the
three of us looking on, a Spider makes her ascent. She ambles with her
eight legs through the air; she mounts, gently swaying. The others, in
ever-increasing numbers, follow, sometimes by different roads, sometimes
by the same road. Any one who did not possess the secret would stand
amazed at this magic ascent without a ladder. In a few minutes, most of
them are up, clinging to the ceiling. Not all of them reach it. I see some who, on attaining a certain
height, cease to go up and even lose ground, although moving their legs
forward with all the nimbleness of which they are capable. The more they
struggle upwards, the faster they come down. This drifting, which
neutralizes the distance covered and even converts it into a
retrogression, is easily explained. The thread has not reached the platform; it floats, it is fixed only
at the lower end. As long as it is of a fair length, it is able,
although moving, to bear the minute animal's weight. But, as the Spider
climbs, the float becomes shorter in proportion; and the time comes when
a balance is struck between the ascensional force of the thread and the
weight carried. Then the beastie remains stationary, although continuing
to climb. Presently, the weight becomes too much for the shorter and shorter
float; and the Spider slips down, in spite of her persistent, forward
striving. She is at last brought back to the branch by the falling
threads. Here, the ascent is soon renewed, either on a fresh thread, if
the supply of silk be not yet exhausted, or on a strange thread, the
work, of those who have gone before. As a rule, the ceiling is reached. It is twelve feet high. The little
Spider is able, therefore, as the first product of her spinning-mill,
before taking any refreshment, to obtain a line fully twelve feet in
length. And all this, the rope-maker and her rope, was contained in the
egg, a particle of no size at all. To what a degree of fineness can the
silky matter be wrought wherewith the young Spider is provided! Our
manufacturers are able to turn out platinum-wire that can only be seen
when it is made red-hot. With much simpler means, the Spiderling draws
from her wire-mill threads so delicate that, even the brilliant light of
the sun does not always enable us to discern them. We must not let all the climbers be stranded on the ceiling, an
inhospitable region where most of them will doubtless perish, being
unable to produce a second thread before they have had a meal. I open
the window.