I turn to other
Lycosae. Many, a deal too many for my patience, stubbornly refuse to
dart from their haunts in order to attack the Carpenter-bee. The
formidable quarry is too much for their daring. Shall not hunger, which
brings the wolf from the wood, also bring the Tarantula out of her hole? Two, apparently more famished than the rest, do at last pounce upon the
Bee and repeat the scene of murder before my eyes. The prey, again
bitten in the neck, exclusively in the neck, dies on the instant. Three
murders, perpetrated in my presence under identical conditions,
represent the fruits of my experiment pursued, on two occasions, from
eight o'clock in the morning until twelve midday. I had seen enough. The quick insect-killer had taught me her trade as
had the paralyzer {10} before her: she had shown me that she is
thoroughly versed in the art of the butcher of the Pampas. {11} The Tarantula is an accomplished
desnucador. It remained to me to confirm the open-air
experiment with experiments in the privacy of my study. I therefore got
together a menagerie of these poisonous Spiders, so as to judge of the
virulence of their venom and its effect according to the part of the
body injured by the fangs. A dozen bottles and test-tubes received the
prisoners, whom I captured by the methods known to the reader. To one
inclined to scream at the sight of a Spider, my study, filled with
odious Lycosae, would have presented a very uncanny appearance. Though the Tarantula scorns or rather fears to attack an adversary
placed in her presence in a bottle, she scarcely hesitates to bite what
is thrust beneath her fangs. I take her by the thorax with my forceps
and present to her mouth the animal which I wish stung. Forthwith, if
the Spider be not already tired by experiments, the fangs are raised and
inserted. I first tried the effects of the bite upon the Carpenter-bee. When struck in the neck, the Bee succumbs at once. It was the lightning
death which I witnessed on the threshold of the burrows. When struck in
the abdomen and then placed in a large bottle that leaves its movements
free, the insect seems, at first, to have suffered no serious injury. It
flutters about and buzzes. But half an hour has not elapsed before death
is imminent. The insect lies motionless upon its back or side. At most,
a few movements of the legs, a slight pulsation of the belly, continuing
till the morrow, proclaim that life has not yet entirely departed. Then
everything ceases: the Carpenter-bee is a corpse. The importance of this experiment compels our attention. When stung
in the neck, the powerful Bee dies on the spot; and the Spider has not
to fear the dangers of a desperate struggle. Stung elsewhere, in the
abdomen, the insect is capable, for nearly half an hour, of making use
of its dart, its mandibles, its legs; and woe to the Lycosa whom the
stiletto reaches. I have seen some who, stabbed in the mouth while
biting close to the sting, died of the wound within the twenty-four
hours. That dangerous prey, therefore, requires instantaneous death,
produced by the injury to the nerve-centres of the neck; otherwise, the
hunter's life would often be in jeopardy. The Grasshopper order supplied me with a second series of victims:
Green Grasshoppers as long as one's finger, large-headed Locusts,
Ephippigerae. {12} The same result follows when these are
bitten in the neck: lightning death. When injured elsewhere, notably in
the abdomen, the subject of the experiment resists for some time. I have
seen a Grasshopper, bitten in the belly, cling firmly for fifteen hours
to the smooth, upright wall of the glass bell that constituted his
prison. At last, he dropped off and died. Where the Bee, that delicate
organism, succumbs in less than half an hour, the Grasshopper, coarse
ruminant that he is, resists for a whole day. Put aside these
differences, caused by unequal degrees of organic sensitiveness, and we
sum up as follows: when bitten by the Tarantula in the neck, an insect,
chosen from among the largest, dies on the spot; when bitten elsewhere,
it perishes also, but after a lapse of time which varies considerably in
the different entomological orders. This explains the long hesitation of the Tarantula, so wearisome to
the experimenter when he presents to her, at the entrance to the burrow,
a rich, but dangerous prey. The majority refuse to fling themselves upon
the Carpenter-bee. The fact is that a quarry of this kind cannot be
seized recklessly: the huntress who missed her stroke by biting at
random would do so at the risk of her life. The nape of the neck alone
possesses the desired vulnerability. The adversary must be nipped there
and no elsewhere. Not to floor her at once would mean to irritate her
and make her more dangerous than ever. The Spider is well aware of this. In the safe shelter of her threshold, therefore, prepared to beat a
quick retreat if necessary, she watches for the favourable moment; she
waits for the big Bee to face her, when the neck is easily grabbed. If
this condition of success offer, she leaps out and acts; if not, weary
of the violent evolutions of the quarry, she retires indoors. And that,
no doubt, is why it took me two sittings of four hours apiece to witness
three assassinations. Formerly, instructed by the paralysing Wasps, I had myself tried to
produce paralysis by injecting a drop of ammonia into the thorax of
those insects, such as Weevils, Buprestes, {13} and Dung-beetles, whose compact nervous
system assists this physiological operation. I showed myself a ready
pupil to my masters' teaching and used to paralyze a Buprestis or a
Weevil almost as well as a Cerceris {14} could have done. Why should I not to-day
imitate that expert butcher, the Tarantula? With the point of a fine
needle, I inject a tiny drop of ammonia at the base of the skull of a
Carpenter-bee or a Grasshopper. The insect succumbs then and there,
without any other movement than wild convulsions. When attacked by the
acrid fluid, the cervical ganglia cease to do their work; and death
ensues. Nevertheless, this death is not immediate; the throes last for
some time. The experiment is not wholly satisfactory as regards
suddenness. Why? Because the liquid which I employ, ammonia, cannot be
compared, for deadly efficacy, with the Lycosa's poison, a pretty
formidable poison, as we shall see. I make a Tarantula bite the leg of a young, well-fledged Sparrow,
ready to leave the nest. A drop of blood flows; the wounded spot is
surrounded by a reddish circle, changing to purple. The bird almost
immediately loses the use of its leg, which drags, with the toes doubled
in; it hops upon the other. Apart from this, the patient does not seem
to trouble much about his hurt; his appetite is good. My daughters feed
him on Flies, bread-crumb, apricot-pulp. He is sure to get well, he will
recover his strength; the poor victim of the curiosity of science will
be restored to liberty. This is the wish, the intention of us all. Twelve hours later, the hope of a cure increases; the invalid takes
nourishment readily; he clamours for it, if we keep him waiting. But the
leg still drags. I set this down to a temporary paralysis which will
soon disappear.