A patient and careful census gives me
nearly six hundred. And all this comes out of a purse no larger than a
pea. By what miracle is there room for such a family? How do those
thousands of legs manage to grow without straining themselves? The egg-bag, as we learnt in Chapter II., is a short cylinder rounded
at the bottom. It is formed of compact white satin, an insuperable
barrier. It opens into a round orifice wherein is bedded a lid of the
same material, through which the feeble beasties would be incapable of
passing. It is not a porous felt, but a fabric as tough as that of the
sack. Then by what mechanism is the delivery effected? Observe that the disk of the lid doubles back into a short fold,
which edges into the orifice of the bag. In the same way, the lid of a
saucepan fits the mouth by means of a projecting rim, with this
difference, that the rim is not attached to the saucepan, whereas, in
the Epeira's work, it is soldered to the bag or nest. Well, at the time
of the hatching, this disk becomes unstuck, lifts and allows the
new-born Spiders to pass through. If the rim were movable and simply inserted, if, moreover, the birth
of all the family took place at the same time, we might think that the
door is forced open by the living wave of inmates, who would set their
backs to it with a common effort. We should find an approximate image in
the case of the saucepan, whose lid is raised by the boiling of its
contents. But the fabric of the cover is one with the fabric of the bag,
the two are closely welded; besides, the hatching is effected in small
batches, incapable of the least exertion. There must, therefore, be a
spontaneous bursting, or dehiscence, independent of the assistance of
the youngsters and similar to that of the seed-pods of plants. When fully ripened, the dry fruit of the snap-dragon opens three
windows; that of the pimpernel splits into two rounded halves, something
like those of the outer case of a fob-watch; the fruit of the carnation
partly unseals its valves and opens at the top into a star-shaped hatch. Each seed-casket has its own system of locks, which are made to work
smoothly by the mere kiss of the sun. Well, that other dry fruit, the Banded Epeira's germ-box, likewise
possesses its bursting-gear. As long as the eggs remain unhatched, the
door, solidly fixed in its frame, holds good; as soon as the little ones
swarm and want to get out, it opens of itself. Come June and July, beloved of the Cicadae, no less beloved of the
young Spiders who are anxious to be off. It were difficult indeed for
them to work their way through the thick shell of the balloon. For the
second time, a spontaneous dehiscence seems called for. Where will it be
effected? The idea occurs off-hand that it will take place along the edges of
the top cover.