Let us not be too extravagant with our praise, however; the
imitation of the bag was a very clumsy one. The work of laying is finished by the end of May, after which, lying
flat on the ceiling of her nest, the mother never leaves her guard-room,
either by night or day. Seeing her look so thin and wrinkled, I imagine
that I can please her by bringing her a provision of Bees, as I was wont
to do. I have misjudged her needs. The Bee, hitherto her favourite dish,
tempts her no longer. In vain does the prey buzz close by, an easy
capture within the cage: the watcher does not shift from her post, takes
no notice of the windfall. She lives exclusively upon maternal devotion,
a commendable but unsubstantial fare. And so I see her pining away from
day to day, becoming more and more wrinkled. What is the withered thing
waiting for, before expiring? She is waiting for her children to emerge;
the dying creature is still of use to them. When the Banded Epeira's little ones issue from their balloon, they
have long been orphans. There is none to come to their assistance; and
they have not the strength to free themselves unaided. The balloon has
to split automatically and to scatter the youngsters and their flossy
mattress all mixed up together. The Thomisus' wallet, sheathed in leaves
over the greater part of its surface, never bursts; nor does the lid
rise, so carefully is it sealed down. Nevertheless, after the delivery
of the brood, we see, at the edge of the lid, a small, gaping hole, an
exit-window. Who contrived this window, which was not there at
first? The fabric is too thick and tough to have yielded to the twitches of
the feeble little prisoners. It was the mother, therefore, who, feeling
her offspring shuffle impatiently under the silken ceiling, herself made
a hole in the bag. She persists in living for five or six weeks, despite
her shattered health, so as to give a last helping hand and open the
door for her family. After performing this duty, she gently lets herself
die, hugging her nest and turning into a shrivelled relic. When July comes, the little ones emerge. In view of their acrobatic
habits, I have placed a bundle of slender twigs at the top of the cage
in which they were born. All of them pass through the wire gauze and
form a group on the summit of the brushwood, where they swiftly weave a
spacious lounge of criss-cross threads. Here they remain, pretty
quietly, for a day or two; then foot-bridges begin to be flung from one
object to the next. This is the opportune moment. I put the bunch laden with beasties on a small table, in the shade,
before the open window. Soon, the exodus commences, but slowly and
unsteadily. There are hesitations, retrogressions, perpendicular falls
at the end of a thread, ascents that bring the hanging Spider up again. In short much ado for a poor result. As matters continue to drag, it occurs to me, at eleven o'clock, to
take the bundle of brushwood swarming with the little Spiders, all eager
to be off, and place it on the window-sill, in the glare of the sun. After a few minutes of heat and light, the scene assumes a very
different aspect. The emigrants run to the top of the twigs, bustle
about actively. It becomes a bewildering rope-yard, where thousands of
legs are drawing the hemp from the spinnerets. I do not see the ropes
manufactured and sent floating at the mercy of the air; but I guess
their presence. Three or four Spiders start at a time, each going her own way in
directions independent of her neighbours'. All are moving upwards, all
are climbing some support, as can be perceived by the nimble motion of
their legs. Moreover, the road is visible behind the climber, it is of
double thickness, thanks to an added thread. Then, at a certain height,
individual movement ceases. The tiny animal soars in space and shines,
lit up by the sun. Softly it sways, then suddenly takes flight. What has happened? There is a slight breeze outside. The floating
cable has snapped and the creature has gone off, borne on its parachute. I see it drifting away, showing, like a spot of light, against the dark
foliage of the near cypresses, some forty feet distant. It rises higher,
it crosses over the cypress-screen, it disappears. Others follow, some
higher, some lower, hither and thither. But the throng has finished its preparations; the hour has come to
disperse in swarms. We now see, from the crest of the brushwood, a
continuous spray of starters, who shoot up like microscopic projectiles
and mount in a spreading cluster. In the end, it is like the bouquet at
the finish of a pyrotechnic display, the sheaf of rockets fired
simultaneously. The comparison is correct down to the dazzling light
itself. Flaming in the sun like so many gleaming points, the little
Spiders are the sparks of that living firework. What a glorious
send-off!