She is engaged on a delicate piece of work. With
an extremely thin thread, she describes from spoke to spoke, starting
from the centre, a spiral line with very close coils. The central space
thus worked attains, in the adults' webs, the dimensions of the palm of
one's hand; in the younger Spiders' webs, it is much smaller, but it is
never absent. For reasons which I will explain in the course of this
study, I shall call it, in future, the ˜resting-floor.'

The thread now becomes thicker. The first could hardly be seen; the
second is plainly visible. The Spider shifts her position with great
slanting strides, turns a few times, moving farther and farther from the
centre, fixes her line each time to the spoke which she crosses and at
last comes to a stop at the lower edge of the frame. She has described a
spiral with coils of rapidly-increasing width. The average distance
between the coils, even in the structures of the young Epeirae, is one
centimetre. {29}

Let us not be misled by the word ˜spiral,' which conveys the notion
of a curved line. All curves are banished from the Spiders' work;
nothing is used but the straight line and its combinations. All that is
aimed at is a polygonal line drawn in a curve as geometry understands
it. To this polygonal line, a work destined to disappear as the real
toils are woven, I will give the name of the ˜auxiliary spiral.' Its
object is to supply cross-bars, supporting rungs, especially in the
outer zone, where the radii are too distant from one another to afford a
suitable groundwork. Its object is also to guide the Epeira in the
extremely delicate business which she is now about to undertake. But, before that, one last task becomes essential. The area occupied
by the spokes is very irregular, being marked out by the supports of the
branch, which are infinitely variable. There are angular niches which,
if skirted too closely, would disturb the symmetry of the web about to
be constructed. The Epeira needs an exact space wherein gradually to lay
her spiral thread. Moreover, she must not leave any gaps through which
her prey might find an outlet. An expert in these matters, the Spider soon knows the corners that
have to be filled up. With an alternating movement, first in this
direction, then in that, she lays, upon the support of the radii, a
thread that forms two acute angles at the lateral boundaries of the
faulty part and describes a zigzag line not wholly unlike the ornament
known as the fret. The sharp corners have now been filled with frets on every side; the
time has come to work at the essential part, the snaring-web for which
all the rest is but a support. Clinging on the one hand to the radii, on
the other to the chords of the auxiliary spiral, the Epeira covers the
same ground as when laying the spiral, but in the opposite direction:
formerly, she moved away from the centre; now she moves towards it and
with closer and more numerous circles. She starts from the base of the
auxiliary spiral, near the frame. What follows is difficult to observe, for the movements are very
quick and spasmodic, consisting of a series of sudden little rushes,
sways and bends that bewilder the eye. It needs continuous attention and
repeated examination to distinguish the progress of the work however
slightly. The two hind-legs, the weaving implements, keep going constantly. Let
us name them according to their position on the work-floor. I call the
leg that faces the centre of the coil, when the animal moves, the ˜inner
leg;' the one outside the coil the ˜outer leg.'

The latter draws the thread from the spinneret and passes it to the
inner leg, which, with a graceful movement, lays it on the radius
crossed. At the same time, the first leg measures the distance; it grips
the last coil placed in position and brings within a suitable range that
point of the radius whereto the thread is to be fixed. As soon as the
radius is touched, the thread sticks to it by its own glue. There are no
slow operations, no knots: the fixing is done of itself. Meanwhile, turning by narrow degrees, the spinstress approaches the
auxiliary chords that have just served as her support. When, in the end,
these chords become too close, they will have to go; they would impair
the symmetry of the work. The Spider, therefore, clutches and holds on
to the rungs of a higher row; she picks up, one by one, as she goes
along, those which are of no more use to her and gathers them into a
fine-spun ball at the contact-point of the next spoke. Hence arises a
series of silky atoms marking the course of the disappearing spiral. The light has to fall favourably for us to perceive these specks, the
only remains of the ruined auxiliary thread. One would take them for
grains of dust, if the faultless regularity of their distribution did
not remind us of the vanished spiral. They continue, still visible,
until the final collapse of the net. And the Spider, without a stop of any kind, turns and turns and
turns, drawing nearer to the centre and repeating the operation of
fixing her thread at each spoke which she crosses. A good half-hour, an
hour even among the full-grown Spiders, is spent on spiral circles, to
the number of about fifty for the web of the Silky Epeira and thirty for
those of the Banded and the Angular Epeira. At last, at some distance from the centre, on the borders of what I
have called the resting-floor, the Spider abruptly terminates her spiral
when the space would still allow of a certain number of turns. We shall
see the reason of this sudden stop presently. Next, the Epeira, no
matter which, young or old, hurriedly flings herself upon the little
central cushion, pulls it out and rolls it into a ball which I expected
to see thrown away. But no: her thrifty nature does not permit this
waste. She eats the cushion, at first an inaugural landmark, then a heap
of bits of thread; she once more melts in the digestive crucible what is
no doubt intended to be restored to the silken treasury. It is a tough
mouthful, difficult for the stomach to elaborate; still, it is precious
and must not be lost. The work finishes with the swallowing. Then and
there, the Spider instals herself, head downwards, at her hunting-post
in the centre of the web. The operation which we have just seen gives rise to a reflection. Men
are born right-handed. Thanks to a lack of symmetry that has never been
explained, our right side is stronger and readier in its movements than
our left. The inequality is especially noticeable in the two hands. Our
language expresses this supremacy of the favoured side in the terms
dexterity, adroitness and address, all of which allude to the right
hand. Is the animal, on its side, right-handed, left-handed, or unbiased? We have had opportunities of showing that the Cricket, the Grasshopper
and many others draw their bow, which is on the right wing-case, over
the sounding apparatus, which is on the left wing-case. They are
right-handed. When you and I take an unpremeditated turn, we spin round on our
right heel. The left side, the weaker, moves on the pivot of the right,
the stronger. In the same way, nearly all the Molluscs that have spiral
shells roll their coils from left to right. Among the numerous species
in both land and water fauna, only a very few are exceptional and turn
from right to left. It would be interesting to try and work out to what extent that part
of the zoological kingdom which boasts a two-sided structure is divided
into right-handed and left-handed animals. Can dissymetry, that source
of contrasts, be a general rule? Or are there neutrals, endowed with
equal powers of skill and energy on both sides? Yes, there are; and the
Spider is one of them. She enjoys the very enviable privilege of
possessing a left side which is no less capable than the right.