She is
ambidextrous, as witness the following observations. When laying her snaring-thread, every Epeira turns in either
direction indifferently, as a close watch will prove. Reasons whose
secret escapes us determine the direction adopted. Once this or the
other course is taken, the spinstress does not change it, even after
incidents that sometimes occur to disturb the progress of the work. It
may happen that a Gnat gets caught in the part already woven. The Spider
thereupon abruptly interrupts her labours, hastens up to the prey, binds
it and then returns to where she stopped and continues the spiral in the
same order as before. At the commencement of the work, gyration in one direction being
employed as well as gyration in the other, we see that, when making her
repeated webs, the same Epeira turns now her right side, now her left to
the centre of the coil. Well, as we have said, it is always with the
inner hind-leg, the leg nearer the centre, that is to say, in some cases
the right and in some cases the left leg, that she places the thread in
position, an exceedingly delicate operation calling for the display of
exquisite skill, because of the quickness of the action and the need for
preserving strictly equal distances. Any one seeing this leg working
with such extreme precision, the right leg to-day, the left to-morrow,
becomes convinced that the Epeira is highly ambidextrous. CHAPTER X:
THE GARDEN SPIDERS: MY NEIGHBOUR

Age does not modify the Epeira's talent in any essential feature. As
the young worked, so do the old, the richer by a year's experience. There are no masters nor apprentices in their guild; all know their
craft from the moment that the first thread is laid. We have learnt
something from the novices: let us now look into the matter of their
elders and see what additional task the needs of age impose upon
them. July comes and gives me exactly what I wish for. While the new
inhabitants are twisting their ropes on the rosemaries in the enclosure,
one evening, by the last gleams of twilight, I discover a splendid
Spider, with a mighty belly, just outside my door. This one is a matron;
she dates back to last year; her majestic corpulence, so exceptional at
this season, proclaims the fact. I know her for the Angular Epeira
(Epeira angulata, WALCK.), clad in grey and girdled with two
dark stripes that meet in a point at the back. The base of her abdomen
swells into a short nipple on either side.