This neighbour will certainly serve my turn, provided that she do not
work too late at night. Things bode well: I catch the buxom one in the
act of laying her first threads. At this rate my success need not be won
at the expense of sleep. And, in fact, I am able, throughout the month
of July and the greater part of August, from eight to ten o'clock in the
evening, to watch the construction of the web, which is more or less
ruined nightly by the incidents of the chase and built up again, next
day, when too seriously dilapidated. During the two stifling months, when the light fails and a spell of
coolness follows upon the furnace-heat of the day, it is easy for me,
lantern in hand, to watch my neighbour's various operations. She has
taken up her abode, at a convenient height for observation, between a
row of cypress-trees and a clump of laurels, near the entrance to an
alley haunted by Moths. The spot appears well-chosen, for the Epeira
does not change it throughout the season, though she renews her net
almost every night. Punctually as darkness falls, our whole family goes and calls upon
her. Big and little, we stand amazed at her wealth of belly and her
exuberant somersaults in the maze of quivering ropes; we admire the
faultless geometry of the net as it gradually takes shape. All agleam in
the lantern-light, the work becomes a fairy orb, which seems woven of
moonbeams. Should I linger, in my anxiety to clear up certain details, the
household, which by this time is in bed, waits for my return before
going to sleep:

˜What has she been doing this evening?' I am asked. ˜Has she finished
her web? Has she caught a Moth?'

I describe what has happened. To-morrow, they will be in a less hurry
to go to bed: they will want to see everything, to the very end. What
delightful, simple evenings we have spent looking into the Spider's
workshop! The journal of the Angular Epeira, written up day by day, teaches us,
first of all, how she obtains the ropes that form the framework of the
building. All day invisible, crouching amid the cypress-leaves, the
Spider, at about eight o'clock in the evening, solemnly emerges from her
retreat and makes for the top of a branch. In this exalted position, she
sits for some time laying her plans with due regard to the locality; she
consults the weather, ascertains if the night will be fine.