They go
straight ahead; and that is enough. As for ourselves, less greatly
daring, we will first enquire; we will see by experiment if the Spider
really knows how to repair her work. The Angular Epeira, that near neighbour who has already supplied me
with so many documents, has just finished her web, at nine o'clock in
the evening. It is a splendid night, calm and warm, favourable to the
rounds of the Moths. All promises good hunting. At the moment when,
after completing the great spiral, the Epeira is about to eat the
central cushion and settle down upon her resting-floor, I cut the web in
two, diagonally, with a pair of sharp scissors. The sagging of the
spokes, deprived of their counter-agents, produces an empty space, wide
enough for three fingers to pass through. The Spider retreats to her cable and looks on without being greatly
frightened. When I have done, she quietly returns. She takes her stand
on one of the halves, at the spot which was the centre of the original
orb; but, as her legs find no footing on one side, she soon realizes
that the snare is defective. Thereupon, two threads are stretched across
the breach, two threads, no more; the legs that lacked a foothold spread
across them; and henceforth the Epeira moves no more, devoting her
attention to the incidents of the chase. When I saw those two threads laid, joining the edges of the rent, I
began to hope that I was to witness a mending-process:

˜The Spider,' said I to myself, ˜will increase the number of those
cross-threads from end to end of the breach; and, though the added piece
may not match the rest of the work, at least it will fill the gap and
the continuous sheet will be of the same use practically as the regular
web.'

The reality did not answer to my expectation. The spinstress made no
further endeavour all night. She hunted with her riven net, for what it
was worth; for I found the web next morning in the same condition
wherein I had left it on the night before. There had been no mending of
any kind. The two threads stretched across the breach even must not be taken
for an attempt at repairing. Finding no foothold for her legs on one
side, the Spider went to look into the state of things and, in so doing,
crossed the rent. In going and returning, she left a thread, as is the
custom with all the Epeirae when walking. It was not a deliberate
mending, but the mere result of an uneasy change of place. Perhaps the subject of my experiment thought it unnecessary to go to
fresh trouble and expense, for the web can serve quite well as it is,
after my scissor-cut: the two halves together represent the original
snaring-surface. All that the Spider, seated in a central position, need
do is to find the requisite support for her spread legs. The two threads
stretched from side to side of the cleft supply her with this, or
nearly. My mischief did not go far enough.