I obtain it,
thanks to my assiduity. While I am watching the rolling of the spiral, a head of game rushes
fun tilt into the unfinished snare. The Epeira interrupts her work,
hurries to the giddy-pate, swathes him and takes her fill of him where
he lies. During the struggle, a section of the web has torn under the
weaver's very eyes. A great gap endangers the satisfactory working of
the net. What will the spider do in the presence of this grievous
rent? Now or never is the time to repair the broken threads: the accident
has happened this very moment, between the animal's legs; it is
certainly known and, moreover, the rope-works are in full swing. This
time there is no question of the exhaustion of the silk-warehouse. Well, under these conditions, so favourable to darning, the Epeira
does no mending at all. She flings aside her prey, after taking a few
sips at it, and resumes her spiral at the point where she interrupted it
to attack the Moth. The torn part remains as it is. The machine-shuttle
in our looms does not revert to the spoiled fabric; even so with the
Spider working at her web. And this is no case of distraction, of individual carelessness; all
the large spinstresses suffer from a similar incapacity for patching. The Banded Epeira and the Silky Epeira are noteworthy in this respect. The Angular Epeira remakes her web nearly every evening; the other two
reconstruct theirs only very seldom and use them even when extremely
dilapidated. They go on hunting with shapeless rags. Before they bring
themselves to weave a new web, the old one has to be ruined beyond
recognition. Well, I have often noted the state of one of these ruins
and, the next morning, I have found it as it was, or even more
dilapidated. Never any repairs; never; never. I am sorry, because of the
reputation which our hard-pressed theorists have given her, but the
Spider is absolutely unable to mend her work. In spite of her thoughtful
appearance, the Epeira is incapable of the modicum of reflexion required
to insert a piece into an accidental gap. Other Spiders are unacquainted with wide-meshed nets and weave satins
wherein the threads, crossing at random, form a continuous substance. Among this number is the House Spider (Tegenaria domestica,
LIN.). In the corners of our rooms, she stretches wide webs fixed by
angular extensions. The best-protected nook at one side contains the
owner's secret apartment. It is a silk tube, a gallery with a conical
opening, whence the Spider, sheltered from the eye, watches events. The
rest of the fabric, which exceeds our finest muslins in delicacy, is
not, properly speaking, a hunting-implement: it is a platform whereon
the Spider, attending to the affairs of her estate, goes her rounds,
especially at night. The real trap consists of a confusion of lines
stretched above the web. The snare, constructed according to other rules than in the case of
the Epeirae, also works differently. Here are no viscous threads, but
plain toils, rendered invisible by the very number. If a Gnat rush into
the perfidious entanglement, he is caught at once; and the more he
struggles the more firmly is he bound. The snareling falls on the
sheet-web. Tegenaria hastens up and bites him in the neck. Having said this, let us experiment a little. In the web of the House
Spider, I make a round hole, two fingers wide. The hole remains yawning
all day long; but next morning it is invariably closed. An extremely
thin gauze covers the breach, the dark appearance of which contrasts
with the dense whiteness of the surrounding fabric. The gauze is so
delicate that, to make sure of its presence, I use a straw rather than
my eyes. The movement of the web, when this part is touched, proves the
presence of an obstacle. Here, the matter would appear obvious. The House Spider has mended
her work during the night; she has put a patch in the torn stuff, a
talent unknown to the Garden Spiders. It would be greatly to her credit,
if a mere attentive study did not lead to another conclusion. The web of the House Spider is, as we were saying, a platform for
watching and exploring; it is also a sheet into which the insects caught
in the overhead rigging fall. This surface, a domain subject to
unlimited shocks, is never strong enough, especially as it is exposed to
the additional burden of little bits of plaster loosened from the wall. The owner is constantly working at it; she adds a new layer nightly. Every time that she issues from her tubular retreat or returns to it,
she fixes the thread that hangs behind her upon the road covered. As
evidence of this work, we have the direction of the surface-lines, all
of which, whether straight or winding, according to the fancies that
guide the Spider's path, converge upon the entrance of the tube. Each
step taken, beyond a doubt, adds a filament to the web. We have here the story of the Processionary of the Pine, {30} whose habits I have related elsewhere. When
the caterpillars leave the silk pouch, to go and browse at night, and
also when they enter it again, they never fail to spin a little on the
surface of their nest. Each expedition adds to the thickness of the
wall. When moving this way or that upon the purse which I have split from
top to bottom with my scissors, the Processionaries upholster the breach
even as they upholster the untouched part, without paying more attention
to it than to the rest of the wall. Caring nothing about the accident,
they behave in the same way as on a non-gutted dwelling.