The crevice is
closed, in course of time, not intentionally, but solely by the action
of the usual spinning. We arrive at the same conclusion on the subject of the House Spider. Walking about her platform every night, she lays fresh courses without
drawing a distinction between the solid and the hollow. She has not
deliberately put a patch in the torn texture; she has simply gone on
with her ordinary business. If it happen that the hole is eventually
closed, this fortunate result is the outcome not of a special purpose,
but of an unvarying method of work. Besides, it is evident that, if the Spider really wished to mend her
web, all her endeavours would be concentrated upon the rent. She would
devote to it all the silk at her disposal and obtain in one sitting a
piece very like the rest of the web. Instead of that, what do we find? Almost nothing: a hardly visible gauze. The thing is obvious: the Spider did on that rent what she did every
elsewhere, neither more nor less. Far from squandering silk upon it, she
saved her silk so as to have enough for the whole web. The gap will be
better mended, little by little, afterwards, as the sheet is
strengthened all over with new layers. And this will take long. Two
months later, the window–my work–still shows through and makes a dark
stain against the dead-white of the fabric. Neither weavers nor spinners, therefore, know how to repair their
work. Those wonderful manufacturers of silk-stuffs lack the least
glimmer of that sacred lamp, reason, which enables the stupidest of
darning-women to mend the heel of an old stocking. The office of
inspector of Spiders' webs would have its uses, even if it merely
succeeded in ridding us of a mistaken and mischievous idea. CHAPTER XI:
THE GARDEN SPIDERS: THE LIME-SNARE

The spiral network of the Epeirae possesses contrivances of fearsome
cunning. Let us give our attention by preference to that of the Banded
Epeira or that of the Silky Epeira, both of which can be observed at
early morning in all their freshness. The thread that forms them is seen with the naked eye to differ from
that of the framework and the spokes. It glitters in the sun, looks as
though it were knotted and gives the impression of a chaplet of atoms. To examine it through the lens on the web itself is scarcely feasible,
because of the shaking of the fabric, which trembles at the least
breath. By passing a sheet of glass under the web and lifting it, I take
away a few pieces of thread to study, pieces that remain fixed to the
glass in parallel lines. Lens and microscope can now play their
part. The sight is perfectly astounding. Those threads, on the borderland
between the visible and the invisible, are very closely twisted twine,
similar to the gold cord of our officers' sword-knots. Moreover, they
are hollow. The infinitely slender is a tube, a channel full of a
viscous moisture resembling a strong solution of gum arabic. I can see a
diaphanous trail of this moisture trickling through the broken ends. Under the pressure of the thin glass slide that covers them on the stage
of the microscope, the twists lengthen out, become crinkled ribbons,
traversed from end to end, through the middle, by a dark streak, which
is the empty container. The fluid contents must ooze slowly through the side of those tubular
threads, rolled into twisted strings, and thus render the network
sticky. It is sticky, in fact, and in such a way as to provoke surprise. I bring a fine straw flat down upon three or four rungs of a sector. However gentle the contact, adhesion is at once established. When I lift
the straw, the threads come with it and stretch to twice or three times
their length, like a thread of India-rubber. At last, when over-taut,
they loosen without breaking and resume their original form. They
lengthen by unrolling their twist, they shorten by rolling it again;
lastly, they become adhesive by taking the glaze of the gummy moisture
wherewith they are filled. In short, the spiral thread is a capillary tube finer than any that
our physics will ever know. It is rolled into a twist so as to possess
an elasticity that allows it, without breaking, to yield to the tugs of
the captured prey; it holds a supply of sticky matter in reserve in its
tube, so as to renew the adhesive properties of the surface by incessant
exudation, as they become impaired by exposure to the air. It is simply
marvellous. The Epeira hunts not with springs, but with lime-snares. And such
lime-snares! Everything is caught in them, down to the dandelion-plume
that barely brushes against them. Nevertheless, the Epeira, who is in
constant touch with her web, is not caught in them. Why? Let us first of all remember that the Spider has contrived for
herself, in the middle of her trap, a floor in whose construction the
sticky spiral thread plays no part. We saw how this thread stops
suddenly at some distance from the centre. There is here, covering a
space which, in the larger webs, is about equal to the palm of one's
hand, a fabric formed of spokes and of the commencement of the auxiliary
spiral, a neutral fabric in which the exploring straw finds no
adhesiveness anywhere. Here, on this central resting-floor, and here only, the Epeira takes
her stand, waiting whole days for the arrival of the game. However
close, however prolonged her contact with this portion of the web, she
runs no risk of sticking to it, because the gummy coating is lacking, as
is the twisted and tubular structure, throughout the length of the
spokes and throughout the extent of the auxiliary spiral. These pieces,
together with the rest of the framework, are made of plain, straight,
solid thread. But, when a victim is caught, sometimes right at the edge of the web,
the Spider has to rush up quickly, to bind it and overcome its attempts
to free itself. She is walking then upon her network; and I do not find
that she suffers the least inconvenience. The lime-threads are not even
lifted by the movements of her legs. In my boyhood, when a troop of us would go, on Thursdays, {31} to try and catch a Goldfinch in the
hemp-fields, we used, before covering the twigs with glue, to grease our
fingers with a few drops of oil, lest we should get them caught in the
sticky matter. Does the Epeira know the secret of fatty substances? Let
us try.