I rub my exploring straw with slightly oiled paper. When applied to
the spiral thread of the web, it now no longer sticks to it. The
principle is discovered. I pull out the leg of a live Epeira. Brought
just as it is into contact with the lime-threads, it does not stick to
them any more than to the neutral cords, whether spokes or parts of the
framework. We were entitled to expect this, judging by the Spider's
general immunity. But here is something that wholly alters the result. I put the leg to
soak for a quarter of an hour in disulphide of carbon, the best solvent
of fatty matters. I wash it carefully with a brush dipped in the same
fluid. When this washing is finished, the leg sticks to the
snaring-thread quite easily and adheres to it just as well as anything
else would, the unoiled straw, for instance. Did I guess aright when I judged that it was a fatty substance that
preserved the Epeira from the snares of her sticky Catherine-wheel? The
action of the carbon disulphide seems to say yes. Besides, there is no
reason why a substance of this kind, which plays so frequent a part in
animal economy, should not coat the Spider very slightly by the mere act
of perspiration. We used to rub our fingers with a little oil before
handling the twigs in which the Goldfinch was to be caught; even so the
Epeira varnishes herself with a special sweat, to operate on any part of
her web without fear of the lime-threads. However, an unduly protracted stay on the sticky threads would have
its drawbacks. In the long run, continual contact with those threads
might produce a certain adhesion and inconvenience the Spider, who must
preserve all her agility in order to rush upon the prey before it can
release itself. For this reason, gummy threads are never used in
building the post of interminable waiting. It is only on her resting-floor that the Epeira sits, motionless and
with her eight legs outspread, ready to mark the least quiver in the
net. It is here, again, that she takes her meals, often long-drawn-out,
when the joint is a substantial one; it is hither that, after trussing
and nibbling it, she drags her prey at the end of a thread, to consume
it at her ease on a non-viscous mat. As a hunting-post and refectory,
the Epeira has contrived a central space, free from glue. As for the glue itself, it is hardly possible to study its chemical
properties, because the quantity is so slight. The microscope shows it
trickling from the broken threads in the form of a transparent and more
or less granular streak. The following experiment will tell us more
about it. With a sheet of glass passed across the web, I gather a series of
lime-threads which remain fixed in parallel lines. I cover this sheet
with a bell-jar standing in a depth of water. Soon, in this atmosphere
saturated with humidity, the threads become enveloped in a watery
sheath, which gradually increases and begins to flow. The twisted shape
has by this time disappeared; and the channel of the thread reveals a
chaplet of translucent orbs, that is to say, a series of extremely fine
drops. In twenty-four hours, the threads have lost their contents and are
reduced to almost invisible streaks. If I then lay a drop of water on
the glass, I get a sticky solution, similar to that which a particle of
gum arabic might yield. The conclusion is evident: the Epeira's glue is
a substance that absorbs moisture freely. In an atmosphere with a high
degree of humidity, it becomes saturated and percolates by sweating
through the side of the tubular threads. These data explain certain facts relating to the work of the net. The
full-grown Banded and Silky Epeirae weave at very early hours, long
before dawn. Should the air turn misty, they sometimes leave that part
of the task unfinished: they build the general framework, they lay the
spokes, they even draw the auxiliary spiral, for all these parts are
unaffected by excess of moisture; but they are very careful not to work
at the lime-threads, which, if soaked by the fog, would dissolve into
sticky shreds and lose their efficacy by being wetted. The net that was
started will be finished to-morrow, if the atmosphere be favourable. While the highly-absorbent character of the snaring-thread has its
drawbacks, it also has compensating advantages. Both Epeirae, when
hunting by day, affect those hot places, exposed to the fierce rays of
the sun, wherein the Crickets delight. In the torrid heats of the
dog-days, therefore, the lime-threads, but for special provisions, would
be liable to dry up, to shrivel into stiff and lifeless filaments. But
the very opposite happens. At the most scorching times of the day, they
continue supple, elastic and more and more adhesive. How is this brought about? By their very powers of absorption. The
moisture of which the air is never deprived penetrates them slowly; it
dilutes the thick contents of their tubes to the requisite degree and
causes it to ooze through, as and when the earlier stickiness decreases. What bird-catcher could vie with the Garden Spider in the art of laying
lime-snares? And all this industry and cunning for the capture of a
Moth! Then, too, what a passion for production! Knowing the diameter of the
orb and the number of coils, we can easily calculate the total length of
the sticky spiral. We find that, in one sitting, each time that she
remakes her web, the Angular Epeira produces some twenty yards of gummy
thread. The more skilful Silky Epeira produces thirty. Well, during two
months, the Angular Epeira, my neighbour, renewed her snare nearly every
evening. During that period, she manufactured something like
three-quarters of a mile of this tubular thread, rolled into a tight
twist and bulging with glue. I should like an anatomist endowed with better implements than mine
and with less tired eyesight to explain to us the work of the marvellous
rope-yard. How is the silky matter moulded into a capillary tube? How is
this tube filled with glue and tightly twisted? And how does this same
wire-mill also turn out plain threads, wrought first into a framework
and then into muslin and satin; next, a russet foam, such as fills the
wallet of the Banded Epeira; next, the black stripes stretched in
meridian curves on that same wallet? What a number of products to come
from that curious factory, a Spider's belly! I behold the results, but
fail to understand the working of the machine. I leave the problem to
the masters of the microtome and the scalpel. CHAPTER
XII: THE GARDEN SPIDERS: THE TELEGRAPH-WIRE

Of the six Garden Spiders that form the object of my observations,
two only, the Banded and the silky Epeira, remain constantly in their
webs, even under the blinding rays of a fierce sun. The others, as a
rule, do not show themselves until nightfall.