Upon further examination he found that the one on the
back of the other had been badly wounded by a blow from his spade, and
was thus unable to get back to its home without the help of its
friend. XXXVI

ELEPHANT
ROPE DANCING

The ease with which the elephant is taught to perform the most
difficult feats forms a remarkable contrast to its huge size and
clumsiness. Aristotle tells us that in ancient times elephants were
taught by their keepers to throw stones at a mark, to cast up arms in
the air, and catch them again on their fall; and to dance, not merely on
the earth, but on the rope. The first, according to the historian
Suetonius, who exhibited elephant rope dancers, was Galba at Rome. The
manner of teaching them to dance on the ground was simple enough (simply
music and a very hot floor); but we are not told how they were taught to
skip the rope, or whether it was the tight or the slack rope, or how
high the rope was. The silence of history on these points is fortunate
for the dancers of the present day; since, but for this, their fame
might have been utterly eclipsed. Elephants may, in the days of old
Rome, have been taught to dance on a rope, but when was an elephant ever
known to skip on a rope over the heads of an audience, or to caper
amidst a blaze of fire fifty feet aloft in the air? What would Aristotle
have thought of his dancing elephants if he had seen some of the
elephants who perform to-day? XXXVII

A
PROVIDENTIAL SAFE CONDUCT

A traveller tells a singular anecdote of a lion, which he says was
told to him by a very credible person. About the year 1614 or 1615, two
Christian slaves at Morocco made their escape, travelling by night, and
hiding themselves in the tops of trees during the day, their Arab
pursuers often passing them by. One night, while travelling along, they
were much astonished and alarmed to see a great lion close by them,
walking when they walked and standing still when they did. Thinking this
a safe conduct sent to them by Providence, they took courage and
travelled in the daytime in company with the lion. The horsemen who had
been sent in pursuit came up, and would have seized upon them, but the
lion interposed, and they were allowed to pass on. Every day these poor
slaves met with some one or other person who wanted to seize them, but
the lion was their protector until they reached the sea coast in safety,
when he left them. XXXVIII

THE DOG
AND THE GOOSE

A goose was once observed to attach itself in the strongest and most
affectionate manner to the house dog, but never offered to go into the
kennel except in rainy weather. Whenever the dog barked, the goose would
cackle, and run at the person she supposed the dog barked at, and try to
bite him by the heels. She would sometimes try to feed with the dog, but
this the dog, who treated his faithful companion with indifference,
would not allow. This bird would not go to roost with the others at
night, unless she was driven by main force; and when in the morning they
were all turned into the field, she would never stir from the yard gate,
but sit there the whole day in sight of the dog. At length orders were
given that she should not longer be molested. Being thus left to
herself, she ran about the yard with him all night and what is most
strange, whenever the dog went out of the yard and ran into the village,
the goose always went with him, managing to keep up with him by the help
of her wings, and thus running and flying, followed him all over the
town. This strange affection of the goose for the dog, which continued
till his death, two years after it was first noticed, is supposed to
have been due to the fact, that once, in her very young days, he had
saved her from a fox. While the dog was ill, the goose never left him, day or night, not
even to feed, and she would surely have starved to death had not a pan
of corn been set every day close to the kennel. At this time the goose
generally sat in the kennel, and would not allow any one to come near
it, except the person who brought the dog's or her own food. The end of
this faithful bird was very sad; for when the dog died, she would still
keep possession of the kennel. A new house dog was bought, which in size
and color so resembled the one lately lost that the poor goose was
unhappily deceived, and going into the kennel as usual, the new dog
seized her by the throat and killed her. XXXIX

THE DEATH
OF ANTIOCHUS REVENGED

When Antiochus was killed in battle by Centaretrius the Galatian, the
victor exultingly leaped on the back of the fallen king's horse; but he
had no sooner done so, than the animal, as if sensible that it was
bestridden by the slayer of its master, at once showed signs of the
greatest fury, and bounding forward to the top of a lofty rock, with a
speed which defied every attempt of Centaretrius to disengage himself,
leaped with him over the precipice, at the foot of which both were found
dashed to pieces. Thus did the noble horse revenge his master's
death. XL

A NOBLE
REVENGE

A young man, anxious to get rid of his dog, took it along with him to
the river. He hired a boat, and rowing out into the stream, threw the
animal in.