The poor creature tried to climb up the sides of the boat,
but his master, whose wish was to drown him, kept on pushing him back
into the water with the oar. In doing this, he fell into the water
himself, and would certainly have been drowned, had not the dog, as soon
as he saw his master struggling helplessly in the stream, allowed the
boat to float away, seized his master's coat, and held him above water
till help came, and his life was saved. XLI

LONG LOST
FOUND AGAIN

A female elephant belonging to a gentleman in Calcutta broke loose
from her keeper, and was lost in the woods. The excuses which the keeper
made were not admitted. It was supposed that he had sold the elephant;
his wife and family therefore were sold for slaves, and he himself was
condemned to work upon the roads. About twelve years after, this man was ordered into the country to
assist in catching wild elephants. The keeper fancied he saw his
long-lost elephant in a group that was before them. He was determined to
go up to it; nor could the strongest arguments as to the danger of such
a risk keep him from his purpose. When he came near the creature, she
knew him, and giving him three salutes by waving her trunk in the air,
knelt down and received him on her back. She afterwards helped in
securing the other elephants, and likewise brought her three young ones. The keeper recovered his reputation; and, as a recompense for his
sufferings and bravery, had a certain sum of money settled on him for
life. XLII

THE DOG OF
MONTARGIS

A Frenchman of family and fortune, travelling alone through a forest,
was murdered and buried under a tree. His dog, an English bloodhound,
would not leave his master's grave till at length, compelled by hunger,
he went to the house of a friend of his master's, and by his mournful
howling seemed trying to make him know that something had happened. He
repeated his cries, ran to the door, looked back to see if any one
followed him, went back to his master's friend, pulled him by the
sleeve, and with a great deal of earnestness seemed begging him to
follow. Struck by these actions, the company decided to follow the dog, who
led them to a tree where he began scratching the earth and howling. On
digging, the body of the unhappy man was found. Some time after, the dog accidentaly met the murderer, instantly
seized him by the throat, and was with the greatest difficulty compelled
to loose his hold. As the dog continued to follow and attack the man,
though kind and gentle to all others, his actions began to attract
notice and comment. At last the affair reached the king's ear. He sent for the dog, who
seemed very gentle till he saw the murderer, when he ran at him
fiercely, growling and snapping at him as usual. The king, struck with the strange behavior of the noble animal,
decided to refer the decision to the chance of battle. In other words,
he gave orders for a combat between the assassin and the dog. The lists
were appointed, and the man was allowed for his weapon a great
cudgel. An empty cask was given to the dog as a place of retreat, to give him
a chance to recover his breath. The dog, finding himself at liberty ran
round his adversary, avoiding his blows, and threatening him on every
side, till his strength was exhausted; then springing forward, he
gripped him by the throat, threw him on the ground, and made him confess
before the king and the whole court. The assassin was afterward
convicted and beheaded. XLIII

CRAB
FISHING

The following is an instance of the wonderful cunning shown by the
Raccoon. It is very fond of crabs, and when in quest of them, will stand
by the side of a swamp, and hang its tail over into the water. The
crabs, mistaking the tail for food, are sure to lay hold of it; and as
soon as the sly beast feels them pinch, he pulls them out with a sudden
jerk. He then takes them to a little distance from the water's edge, and
in eating them, is careful to get them crossways in his mouth, lest he
should suffer from their nippers. XLIV

THE HORSE
AND GREYHOUND

Various have been the opinions upon the difference of speed between a
well-bred greyhound and a racehorse, if opposed to each other. Wishes
had been often expressed by the sporting world that some standard could
be adopted by which the superiority of speed could be fairly
ascertained, when the following incident happened, and afforded some
information upon what had before been considered a matter of great
uncertainty. In the month of December, 1800 a match was to have been run
over Doncaster racecourse for one hundred guineas, but one of the horses
being withdrawn, a mare started alone, that by running the ground she
might ensure the wager. After having run about a mile in the four, she
was joined by a greyhound, which leaped into the course from one side,
and entering into the competition, continued to race with the mare for
the other three miles, keeping nearly head and head, and affording an
excellent treat to the field by the energetic exertions of each. At
passing the distance post five to four was bet in favor of the
greyhound; when parallel with the stand it was even betting, and any
person might have taken his choice from five to ten. The mare, however,
had the advantage by a head at the end of the race. XLV

THE WATCH
DOG

A thief who had broken into the shop of Cellini, the artist, and was
breaking open the caskets in order to get at some jewels, was arrested
in his progress by a dog, against whom he found it a difficult matter to
defend himself with a sword.