The bird remained there for several
years, and being kindly treated, became so tame as to come at call to be
fed at the kitchen door. It was known by the name of Willie. This bird
became at last so tame that no pains were taken to keep it, and, its
wings having grown to full length, it flew away, joined the other gulls
on the beach, and came back from time to time, to pay a visit to the
house. When its companions left the country at the usual season, Willie
went with them, much to the regret of the family. To their great joy,
however, it returned next season; and with its usual familiarity came to
its old haunt, where it was welcomed and fed liberally. In this way it
went and returned for forty years, without missing a year, and kept up
its acquaintance in the most cordial manner; for while in the country,
it visited them almost daily, answered to its name like any domestic
animal, and almost ate out of the hand. One year, however, Willie did
not pay his respects to the family for eight or ten days after the
general flock of gulls were upon the coast, and great was the concern
and sorrow over his loss, as it was thought he must surely be dead; but
to the surprise and joy of the family, a servant one morning came
running into the breakfast-room in
great joy, saying that Willie had returned. Food was soon supplied in
abundance, and Willie with his usual frankness ate of it heartily and
was as tame as any barn-yard fowl about the house. After a year or two
more, however, this grateful bird never came again. LXIII

A STRANGE
PROTECTOR

A lady had a tame bird which she was in the habit of letting out of
its cage every day. One morning as it was picking crumbs of bread off
the carpet, her cat, who had always showed before great kindness toward
the bird, suddenly seized it, and jumped with it in her mouth upon a
table. The lady was alarmed for the fate of her favorite, but on turning
about, instantly saw the cause. The door had been left open, and a
strange cat had just come into the room! After she had put it out, her
own cat came down from her place of safety, and dropped the bird without
having done it the least injury. LXIV

THE LION
AND HIS KEEPER

In a large menagerie there was a lion called Danco, whose cage needed
some repairs. His keeper hired a carpenter to do the work, but when the
workman came and saw the lion, he started back in terror. The keeper
entered the animal's cage, and led him to the upper part of it, while
the lower was being fixed. He there amused himself for some time playing
with the lion, and being wearied, at last fell asleep. The carpenter,
relying fully upon the vigilance of the keeper, went on rapidly with his
work, and when he had finished it, he called him to see what was done. The keeper made no answer. Having repeatedly called him in vain, he
began to feel alarmed at his situation, and he determined to go to the
upper part of the cage, where, looking through the railing, he saw the
lion and the keeper sleeping side by side. He immediately uttered a loud
cry; the lion, awakened by the noise, started up and stared at the
carpenter with an eye of fury, and then, placing his paw on the breast
of his keeper, lay down to sleep again. At length the keeper was
awakened by some of the attendants, and he did not appear in the least
worried by the situation in which he found himself, but shook the lion
by the paw, and then gently conducted him to his old cage. LXV

A USURPER
PUNISHED

Some years ago a sparrow had early in the spring taken possession of
a swallow's old nest, and had laid some eggs in it, when the original
builder and owner made her appearance and claimed possession. The
sparrow, firmly seated, refused to leave the nest. A smart battle
followed, in which the swallow was joined by its mate, and, during the
conflict, by several of their comrades. All the efforts of the swallows
to drive out the usurper were, however, unsuccessful. Finding themselves
completely foiled in this object, they held a council of war to consult
as to what they should do, and the plan they agreed upon shows that it
was with no ordinary degree of ingenuity that they had solved the
question as to what was right and just. Since the sparrow could not be
driven out of the nest, the next question with them appears to have
been, how she could be otherwise punished for her unlawful occupation of
a property belonging to another. The council were of one mind in
thinking that nothing short of the death of the intruder could atone for
so heinous an offense; and having so decided, they went to work to put
their sentence into execution in the following very wonderful manner. Leaving the scene of the contest for a time, they returned with many
more friends, each bearing a beak full of building materials; and
without any further attempt to beat out the sparrow, they at once set to
work to build up the entrance into the
nest, and soon had enclosed the sparrow within the clay tenement, thus
leaving the poor bird to perish in the stronghold she had so bravely
defended. LXVI

STRANGE
ROOKS

In a large north of England town a pair of strange rooks, after
trying in vain to find a home in a rookery at a little distance from the
Exchange, gave up the attempt, and took refuge on the spire of a
building; and although constantly bothered by other rooks, they built
their nest on the top of the vane, and there reared a brood of young
ones, undisturbed by the noise of the people below them. The nest and
its inmates were, of course, turned about by every change of the wind.