Rare Honesty

A mastiff dog, who owed more to the bounty of a neighbour than to his
master, was once locked by mistake in the well-stored pantry of his
benefactor for a whole day, where milk, butter, bread, and meat, within
his reach, were in abundance. On the return of the servant to the
pantry, seeing the dog come out, and knowing the time he had been
confined, she trembled for the devastation which her negligence must
have occasioned; but on close examination, it was found that the honest
creature had not tasted of anything, although, on coming out, he fell on
a bone that was given to him, with all the voraciousness of hunger. image

Anecdote LXXVIII. Of Two Evils Choosing the Least

A French dog was taught by his master to execute various commissions,
and among others, to fetch him victuals from a restaurant in a basket. One evening when the dog was returning to his master thus furnished, two
other dogs, attracted by the savoury smell issuing from the basket,
determined to attack him. The dog put his basket on the ground, and set
himself courageously against the first that advanced against him; but
while he was engaged with the one, the other ran to the basket, and
began to help himself. At length, seeing that there was no chance of
beating both dogs, and saving his master's dinner, he threw himself
between his two opponents, and without further ceremony, quickly
despatched the remainder of the victuals himself, and then returned to
his master with the empty basket. image

Anecdote LXXIX. Snake Destroyers

The Indian ichneumon, a small creature in appearance between the
weasel and the mangoose, is of infinite use to the natives from its
inveterate enmity to snakes, which would otherwise render every footstep
of the traveller dangerous. This diminutive creature, on seeing a snake
ever so large, will instantly dart on it, and seize it by the throat,
provided he finds himself in an open place, where he has an opportunity
of running to a certain herb, which he knows instinctively to be an
antidote against the poison of the bite, if he should happen to receive
one. A gentleman visiting the island of Ceylon saw the experiment tried
in a closed room, where the ichneumon, instead of attacking his enemy,
did all in his power to avoid him. On being carried out of the house,
however, and laid near his antagonist in the plantation, he immediately
darted at the snake, and soon destroyed it. It then suddenly disappeared
for a few minutes, and again returned, as soon as it had found the herb
and ate it. image

Anecdote LXXX. Monkey versus Snake

The monkeys in India, knowing by instinct the malignity of the
snakes, are most vigilant in their destruction; they seize them when
asleep by the neck, and running to the nearest flat stone, grind down
the head by a strong friction on the surface, frequently looking at it,
and grinning at their progress. When convinced that the venomous fangs
are destroyed, they toss the reptiles to their young ones to play with,
and seem to rejoice in the destruction of their common enemy. image

Anecdote LXXXI.