Pugnacity

The town of Bindrabund in India is in high estimation with the pious
Hindoos, who resort to it from the most remote parts of the empire. The
town is surrounded by groves of trees, which are the residence of
innumerable apes, whose propensity to mischief is increased by the
religious respect paid to them in honour of a divinity of the Hindoo
mythology, who is represented as possessing the body of an ape. In
consequence of this superstition, such numbers of these animals are
supported by the voluntary contributions of pilgrims, that no one dares
to resist or ill-treat them. Hence, access to the town is often
difficult; for should one of the apes take a dislike to any unlucky
traveller, he is sure to be assailed by the whole community, who follow
him with all the missile weapons they can collect, as pieces of bamboo,
stones, and dirt, making at the same time a most hideous howling. Of the
danger attending a meeting with enemies of this description, the
following is a melancholy instance. Two young cavalry officers,
belonging to the Bengal army, having occasion to pass this way, were
attacked by a body of apes, at whom one of the gentlemen inadvertently
fired. The alarm instantly drew the whole body, with the fakeers, out of
the place, with so much fury, that the officers, though mounted upon
elephants, were compelled to seek their safety in flight; and in
endeavouring to pass the Jumna, they both perished. image

Anecdote LXXXV. A Carriers Dog

A carrier on his way to a market town had occasion to stop at some
houses by the road side, in the way of his business, leaving his cart
and horse upon the public road, under the protection of a passenger and
a trusty dog. Upon his return he missed a led horse, belonging to a
gentleman in the neighbourhood, which he had tied to the end of the
cart, and likewise one of the female passengers. On inquiry he was
informed that during his absence the female, who had been anxious to try
the mettle of the pony, had mounted it, and that the animal had set off
at full speed. The carrier expressed much anxiety for the safety of the
young woman, casting at the same time an expressive look at his dog. Oscar observed his master's eye, and aware of its meaning, instantly set
off in pursuit of the pony, which coming up with soon after, he made a
sudden spring, seized the bridle, and held the animal fast. Several
people having observed the circumstance, and the perilous situation of
the girl, came to relieve her. Oscar, however, notwithstanding their
repeated endeavours, would not quit his hold, and the pony was actually
led into the stable with the dog, till such time as the carrier should
arrive. Upon the carrier entering the stable, Oscar wagged his tail in
token of satisfaction, and immediately relinquished the bridle to his
master. image

Anecdote LXXXVI.