A Philosophic Cat

A young cat, which sometimes was permitted the indulgence of taking
her place in the domestic circle, upon the carpet before the fire in the
parlour, one day came in when one of the party was spinning upon a line
wheel. Having never seen such a thing before, she became extremely
alarmed by its appearance and motion. She couched down in an attitude of
fear and of investigation; and yet at such a distance as would admit of
a speedy retreat if it should prove to be alive, and an enemy. She crept
slowly all along the wheel, with her eyes steadily fixed on it, and with
a very singular expression of countenance, till at length, not being
able to satisfy herself, she retreated towards the door, impatiently
waiting to make her escape; which she did the moment it was in her
power, with great precipitation. The next morning, when she came into the room, the wheel then
standing still, she advanced courageously towards it, and after an
apparently careful examination, walking all round, ventured upon the
further experiment of endeavouring to ascertain with her paw whether
there was really anything to be apprehended from it. Still not finding
any motion, our philosopher of the Newtonian school, satisfied that she
had nothing to fear, seated herself quietly by the fire; and the next
time she saw it in motion, she sprang gaily forward, and enjoyed her
triumph, by playing with the object of her former terror. image

Anecdote XCVIII. An Ass Cast Away

An ass, belonging to a captain in the Royal Navy, then at Malta, was
shipped on board a frigate, bound from Gibraltar for that island. The
vessel struck on some sands off the Point de Gat, and the ass was thrown
overboard, in the hope that it might possibly be able to swim to the
land; of which, however, there seemed but little chance, for the sea was
running so high, that a boat which left the ship was lost. A few days
after, when the gates of Gibraltar were opened in the morning, the guard
were surprised by Valiant, as the ass was called, presenting himself for
admittance. On entering, he proceeded immediately to the stable of a
merchant, which he had formerly occupied. The poor animal had not only
swam safely to the shore, but without guide, compass, or travelling map,
had found his way from Point de Gat to Gibraltar, a distance of more
than two hundred miles, through a mountainous and intricate country,
intersected by streams, which he had never traversed before, and in so
short a period, that he could not have made one false turn. image

Anecdote XCIX. Honours Paid to Living and Departed Worth

The people of Athens, when they had finished the temple called
Hecatompedon, set at liberty the beasts of burden that had been
chiefly employed in that work, suffering them to pasture at large, free
from any further service. It is said that one of these afterwards came
of its own accord to work, and putting itself at the head of the
labouring cattle, marched before them to the citadel. The people were
pleased with this spontaneous action, and made a decree that the animal
should be kept at the public charge as long as it lived. Many have shown
particular marks of regard in burying animals which they had cherished
and been fond of. The graves of Cimon's mares, with which he thrice
conquered at the Olympic games, are still to be seen near his own tomb. Xanthippus, whose dog swam by the side of his galley to Salamis, when
the Athenians were forced to abandon their city, afterwards buried it
with great pomp upon a promontory, which to this day is called the
Dog's Grave. In Pliny, we have an amusing account of a superb
funeral ceremony, which took place during the reign of Claudius; in
which the illustrious departed was no other than a crow, so celebrated
for its talents and address, that it was looked upon as a sort of public
property. Its death was felt as a national loss; the man who killed it
was condemned to expiate the crime with his own life; and nothing less
than a public funeral could, as it was thought, do justice to its
memory. The remains of the bird were laid on a bier, which was borne by
two slaves; musicians went before it, playing mournful airs; and an
infinite number of persons, of all ages and conditions, brought up the
rear of the melancholy procession. image

Anecdote C.