A Faithful Companion

A gardener, in removing some rubbish, discovered two ground toads of
an uncommon size, weighing no less than seven pounds. On finding them,
he was surprised to see that one of them got upon the back of the other,
and both proceeded to move slowly on the ground towards a place of
retreat; upon further examination he found that the one on the back of
the other had received a severe contusion from his spade, and was
rendered unable to get away, without the assistance of its
companion! image

Anecdote V. A False Alarm

Some years ago, a soldier doing duty at the castle of Cape Town, kept
a tame baboon for his amusement. One evening it broke its chains unknown
to him. In the night, climbing up into the belfry, it began to play
with, and ring the bell. Immediately the whole place was in an uproar;
some great danger was apprehended. Many thought that the castle was on
fire; others, that an enemy had entered the bay, and the soldiers began
actually to turn out, when it was discovered that the baboon had
occasioned the disturbance. On the following morning a court-martial was
held, when Cape justice dictated, that whereas the baboon had
unnecessarily put the castle into alarm, the master should receive fifty
lashes; the soldier, however, found means to evade the punishment. image

Anecdote VI. Sagacious Bruin

The captain of a Greenland whaler being anxious to procure a bear,
without wounding the skin, made trial of the stratagem of laying the
noose of a rope in the snow, and placing a piece of meat within it. A
bear ranging the neighbouring ice was soon enticed to the spot by the
smell of the dainty morsel. He perceived the bait, approached, and
seized it in his mouth; but his foot at the same time, by a jerk of the
rope, being entangled in the noose, he pushed it off with his paw, and
deliberately retired. After having eaten the piece he had carried away
with him, he returned. The noose, with another piece of meat, being
replaced, he pushed the rope aside, and again walked triumphantly off
with his capture. A third time the noose was laid; but excited to
caution by the evident observations of the bear, the sailors buried the
rope beneath the snow, and laid the bait in a deep hole dug in the
centre. The bear once more approached, and the sailors were assured of
their success. But bruin, more sagacious than they expected, after
snuffing about the place for a few moments, scraped the snow away with
his paw, threw the rope aside, and again escaped unhurt with his
prize. image

Anecdote VII. A Strange Mouser

A gentleman once had in his possession a hen, which answered the
purpose of a cat in destroying mice. She was constantly seen watching
close to a corn rick, and the moment a mouse appeared, she seized it in
her beak, and carried it to a meadow adjoining, where she would play
with it like a young cat for some time, and then kill it. She has been
known to catch four or five mice a day in this manner. image

Anecdote VIII.