Mimetic resemblances are worked out with great difficulty, except in
such cases as the nocturnal animals, which simply become one with their
surroundings. Mice, rats, moles, and bats wear overcoats that are very
inconspicuous, and when suddenly approached they appear almost
invisible. Some of the
North American Indians claimed that buffaloes made their calves wallow
in the red clay to prevent them from being seen when they were lying
down in the red soil. The kinds of protection from these mimetic resemblances are many and
varied: the lion, because of his sandy-colouring, is able to conceal
himself by merely crouching down upon the desert sands; the striped
tiger hides among the tufts of grass and bamboos of the tropics, the
stripes of his body so blending with the vertical stems as to prevent
even the natives from seeing him in this position. The kudu, one of the
handsomest of the antelopes, is a remarkable animal in several ways. His
camouflage is so perfect that it gives him magnificent courage. With his
spiral horns, white face, and striped coat tinted in pale blue, he is
almost invisible when hiding in a thicket. The perfect harmony of his
horns with the twisted vines and branches, and the white colourings with
blue tints in the reflected sunlight conceal him entirely. The snow-leopard, which inhabits Central Asia, is stony-grey, with
large annular spots to match the rocks among which he lives. This
colouration conceals him from the sheep, upon which he preys; while the
spotted and blotchy pattern of the so-called clouded tiger, and the
peculiarly-barred skin of the
ocelot, imitate the rugged bark of trees, upon which these animals
live. One of the most unusual and skilled mimics is the Indian sloth, whose
colour pattern and unique eclipsing effects seem almost incredible to
those unfamiliar with the real facts. His home is in the trees, and he
has a deep, orange-coloured spot on his back, which would make him very
conspicuous if seen out of his home surroundings. But he is very clever,
and clings to the moss-draped trees, where the effect of the
orange-coloured spot is exactly like the scar on the tree, while his
hair resembles the withered moss so strikingly that even naturalists are
deceived. Henry Drummond must have known the animal world rather well when he
remarked that "Carlisle in his blackest visions of 'shams and humbugs'
among humanity never saw anything so finished in hypocrisy as the
naturalist now finds in every tropical forest. There are to be seen
creatures, not singly, but in tens of thousands, whose every appearance,
down to the minutest spot and wrinkle, is an affront to truth, whose
every attitude is a pose for a purpose, and whose whole life is a
sustained lie. Before these masterpieces of deception the most ingenious
of human impositions are vulgar and transparent. Fraud is not only the
great rule of
life in a tropical forest, but the one condition of it."

Many of the larger cats live in trees, and most of them have spotted
or oscillated skins, which aid them in hiding among foliage plants. The
puma who wears a brown coat is an exception, but it must be remembered
that he does not need the kind of coat his fellow friends wear. He
clings so closely to the body of a tree while waiting for his prey as to
be almost invisible.