At their nightly encampments one of the passengers on
board was an old miner who insisted on sleeping in a hammock suspended
between two small trees. His weight was sufficient to bring the hammock
almost to the ground at its lowest curve. One morning, his friends
inquired how he had slept, and he complained that "the frogs and small
animals had made so much noise under the hammock that he could not
sleep." One of the Indian servants roared with laughter, as he said,
"Uh, 'tiger' sleep with old man last night. He watch him!"–tiger being
the Indian term for the puma. Careful searching revealed the footprints
of an immense puma, and that he had evidently lain directly under the
hammock. The noise which had kept the old man from sleeping was the
purring of the animal, pleased over the privilege of sleeping so near a
man. These Guiana Indians know the ways of the forests, and have a
special liking for wild animals. This entire absence of fear in the puma
is the same as exhibited by the tame house cat. Many animals seem fond of human companionship, and are easily tamed. My sister raised a small red deer in Texas, and he became so perfectly
tame that
he would follow her wherever she went, and would even take food from her
hand. In Yellowstone Park the deer are so tame they will come into the
yards to get food, while the brown bears approach the hotels like
tramps, and many of the smaller animals are perfectly fearless. At the
Bronx Zoological Gardens, and the London Zoo, the animals have lost all
fear. They seem to realise that they have no power to escape and depend
entirely upon man for their daily food. But, of course, their conditions
are artificial, hence such conclusions as we may draw as to their normal
attitude toward man do not necessarily indicate the innate character of
their wild kinsmen. We occasionally find, for instance, that in
unsettled regions like parts of Mexico and South America, where animals
are plentiful and man's influence largely absent, they are found to be
particularly ferocious, yet even then lions and leopards rarely attack
men unless disturbed in some unusual way. Quite a few naturalists and scientists believe that the animals' love
for man was acquired and not natural. But if this be true, how did the
very early tribes of men escape destruction at the hands of the wild
beasts which were far more numerous than at present? The animal kingdom
was evidently impressed by the power of man at a very early stage of
its development, but in just what manner or what period of time this
came to pass is not known. If we regard the conflict as merely between two great groups of
animals, surely the animals should have won, and man would have
disappeared from the face of the earth. The fact that he did not, and
that he became master of the animals, is presumptive evidence that man
exceeded the animals in intelligence. Primitive man could have lived in no other way than by "his wits."
For he was not nearly so well equipped for defence as are the monkeys of
to-day. Their greatest power is in the ability to use their arms and
hands in swinging rapidly from branch to branch.