Sometimes she will climb just behind him to
catch him if he falls or becomes frightened. His arms soon become very powerful, for he is constantly swinging,
climbing, and exercising by hanging from a bough with one hand while he
pulls himself up with the great power of his muscles. He is able to
gather koola nuts long before his jaws are strong enough to crack them;
so his fond mother cracks them for him until his hands and mouth are
stronger. Like all babies, his ambition is to be big and strong like his
father. Some of the apes are most intelligent and human, and, as allies to
man, are more desirable than certain of the human savages. Dr. Livingstone, in his Last Journals, describes one he first
discovered. "Their teeth," he says, "are slightly human, but their
canines show the beast by their large development. The hands, or rather
the fingers, are like those of the natives. They live in communities
consisting of about a dozen individuals, and are strictly monogamous in
their conjugal relations, and vegetarian, or rather frugivorous, in
their diet, their favourite food being bananas." The natives
where these apes live are cannibals, and Dr. Livingstone says, "they are
the lowest of the low." One of their number, who had committed a great
murder, offered his grandmother "to be killed in expiation of his
offence, and this vicarious punishment was accepted as
satisfactory."

Thus it is evident that certain of these wild-creatures–like the
sokos–have a more correct conception of justice than their human
associates, the savages. At least the animals do not make the innocent
suffer for the guilty, and give their lives unjustly. Should a soko try
to take another's wife he is publicly punished by the tribe. These
animals have a great sense of humour and fully enjoy a practical joke. Strangely enough, they never attack women and children, but if any man
approaches them with a spear or gun, they try to rush upon him, often at
the expense of their own life, and wrest the weapon from him. Most of
them are exceedingly kind and civilised in their actions, and natives
always say, "Soko is a man, and nothing bad in him."

Often they kidnap babies and carry them up into trees. But these are
never harmed and the apes are ever ready to exchange them for bananas. The robbery is, no doubt, for the purpose of extortion. If perchance one
of their children is stolen, the
entire forest sets up a scream and wail until it is returned. Old
hunters and travellers say that they would rather steal the child of a
native savage than to take one of the sokos. If one of the soko children
disappears, and they do not know what became of it, they immediately
send out detectives throughout the country to seek for it. And woe be
the home where a stolen soko baby is found! But man has one great power–a far more potent ally than he has in his
animal friends–the use of fire. Unquestionably to the minds of animals
it is a supernatural power. They cannot create it, understand it, and it
is very doubtful if they can yet use it to advantage. How marvellous is
this thing–fire! That great blazing pillar of cloud that destroys all,
and leaves nothing to show where it has taken its enemies! To animals it
springs up wherever man rests his head, and protects him while he
sleeps.