It is always with him, and its presence for untold ages has
brought terror to all of them. Not a few reports tell us that certain of our animal allies among the
monkeyfolk of South Africa use fire. This may not be true; but it is
probable that the time is near at hand when the wild baboon-men of the
woods will learn to make and use fire just as we have done. Enough instances could be shown illustrating animals as man's allies
to fill an entire book, but a sufficient number have been adduced to
show how truly they are our allies, helpers, and protectors just as we
are theirs, only their mode of manifesting it is different. We have
shown the absolute fallacy of the old belief that animals lack
mentality, and that all their acts of kindness are based upon self-love
and personal gain, and have seen that in proportion to their
opportunities in life, they have quite as much mentality and brotherly
love for each other and mankind as is found among our lower savages. We
have seen that among animals as among men, individuals will give their
lives for their fellows, serve the weak and timid, and demonstrate the
highest and holiest feelings of which true souls can be capable, and
always share equally with man the burdens that fall upon themselves and
their human allies. And the time is already here when man should protect
his animal friends more, and teach them through human kindness not to
fear him. But this can only be done when he is willing to treat them as
fellow beings only a little below him in the scale of existence. CHAPTER
XV

THE FUTURE
LIFE OF ANIMALS

"Ah, poor companion! when thou
followedst last

Thy master's parting footsteps to
the gate

Which closed forever on him, thou
didst lose

Thy best friend, and none was left
to plead

For the old age of brute
fidelity. But fare thee well. Mine is no
narrowed creed;

And He who gave thee being did not
frame

The mystery of Life to be the
sport

Of merciless man. There is another
world

For all that live and move–a better
one! Where the proud bipeds, who would
fain confine

Of their own charity, may envy
thee."

–Southey (on
the death of his dog). The old belief is still prevalent that the Bible teaches that of all
living creatures man alone is immortal. This erroneous belief springs
out of man's egotism, however, and is not substantiated by the
Scriptures. Among many of the Old Testament writers we find that
immortality was assured for neither man nor animals; whereas, with the
larger revelation of the New Testament, immortality
is no longer questioned for any living creature. There are, of course, many supposedly intelligent people who deny to
animals the power of reason, and attribute all their marvellous powers
and abilities to blind instinct. It is, therefore, not the least bit
surprising that the vast majority of people believe that when an animal
dies, its life principle dies also. The animating power, they believe,
is destroyed, and the body returns to the dust. These mistaken conclusions are largely, if not wholly, due to two
passages of Scripture, one of which is in the Psalms and the other in
Ecclesiastes. The one most often quoted, from the Psalms, runs in the
authorised version: "Nevertheless, man being in honor, abideth not; he
is like the beasts that perish." This verse is frequently quoted as
decisive of the whole question. The other passage, which is found in
Ecclesiastes, reads: "Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward,
and the spirit of the beast that goeth downward to the earth?"

It is upon the authority of these two passages that we are supposed
to believe that when an animal dies, its life has gone forever,
departed, expired. In this new age of thought and discovery, we
do not attempt to explain a passage of Scripture, no matter how simple
it may appear to be, without referring to the original text, that we may
see if the translator has kept the true sense of the words and
adequately expressed their significance, remembering that words often
change their meaning, and that the original use of a word may have
conveyed exactly the opposite meaning to that which we at present attach
to it. But if we accept the passage just as it stands, with the literal
meaning of the words as is usually understood, there is but one
conclusion–animals have no future life. Death ends all for them. But, on
the other hand, if we are to take the literal interpretation of the
Bible only, we are forced to believe that man, as well as the animals,
has no life after death. Surely the book of Psalms is full of examples
to support this literal interpretation. For example, "In death there is
no remembrance of thee: in the grave, who shall give thee thanks?"
Again, "The dead praise not the Lord, neither any that go down into
silence." Or, "His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in
that very day his thoughts perish." These quotations could be greatly
added to, and if taken in their literal sense, we would reach but one
conclusion–death ends all for every living creature! Nothing in all the
literature
of the earth could be more gloomy and discouraging than these quotations
with numerous others that contemplate death. Yet, vain man takes one
little passage that seemingly denies a future life to animals from the
same book that many times over denies a future life to mankind; in fact,
there are five times as many Scripture passages claiming for man that
all ends in death as there are for animals. Over and over we are told
that those who have died have no remembrance of God, and cannot praise
Him. The Bible speaks of death as the "land of forgetfulness,"–the place
of darkness, where all man's thoughts perish. Nothing more than this
could be said of the "animals that perish!"

Other Biblical writers referred to mankind as those who "dwell in
houses of clay," and Job says: "They are destroyed from morning to
evening; they perish forever, without any regarding it." In another
place he says: "As the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away, so he that
goeth down to the grave shall come up no more." Again he speaks of "the
land of darkness and the shadow of death," and says: "Man dieth, and
wasteth away: yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where is he? As the
waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up: so man
lieth down, and riseth not." Job
laments the pitiable conditions of his life, and complains that life was
ever granted to him, and that even death can bring nothing to him except
extinction. Yet, if we examine Ecclesiastes, the book in which we find the single
passage upon which many people base a belief in the non-future existence
of animals, there are passages which are really no more positive as to
the future of mankind. For example, "I said in my heart concerning the
estate of the sons of men, that God might manifest them, and that they
might see that they themselves are beasts.