They must all be treated the
same. All scholars are familiar with that remarkable
eleventh book of Homer's Odyssey, known as the Necromanteia, or
Invocation of the Dead, and in it Ulysses descends into the regions of
the departed spirits to invoke them and obtain advice as to his future
adventures. One commentator says: "He sails to the boundaries of the
ocean, and lands in the country of the Cimmerians, who dwell in
perpetual cloud and darkness, and in whose country are the gates leading
to the regions of the dead." All is darkness, discontent, hunger;
nothing is said of virtue, wisdom, beauty, happiness. Only bitter gloom! No wonder this heathen poet considered, with such views of a future
life, sensual pleasures as the chief object of this life. The following dialogue between the inhabitants of the earth and the
dweller in the regions of the dead–between Ulysses and Achilles–is
remarkable for its horrible depiction of the future life:

"Through the thick gloom his friend
Achilles knew,

As he speaks the tears dissolve in
dew. 'Comest thou alive to view the Stygian
bounds,

Where the wan spectres walk eternal
rounds;

Nor fear'st the dark and dismal waste to
tread,

Thronged with pale ghosts familiar with
the dead?'

To whom with sighs, 'I pass these
dreadful gates

To seek the Theban, and consult the
Fates;

For still distressed I roam from coast
to coast,

Lost to my friends and to my country
lost. But sure the eye of Time beholds no
name

So blessed as thine in all the rolls of
fame;

Alive we hailed thee with our guardian
gods,

And, dead thou rulest a king in these
abodes.'

'Talk not of ruling in this dolorous
gloom,

Nor think vain words (he cried) can ease
my doom. Rather I'd choose laboriously to
bear

A weight of woes and breathe the vital
air,

A slave for some poor hind that toils
for bread,

Than reign the sceptered monarch of the
dead.'"

Yet, even this outpouring of hopeless words by the heathen poet is
encouraging when compared to the writings of the Psalmist, of Solomon or
Job, for those who have gone beyond the grave still have memory, an
interest in their friends on earth, love and desire. But no such hope
exists for man, if we are to accept literally all the passages of
Scripture which have been quoted. By such interpretation, man passes
after death into eternal darkness, forgetfulness, silence, "where there
is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom–where even his very
thoughts perish." If these particular passages are to be accepted as
final on the subject, there is no future life for either man or animal. They are too definite to admit of any interpretation that might soften
or alter their meaning. It may be shocking to some to compare the belief of an ancient Greek
and the teachings of a Latin
Epicurean with the sacred writings of the Bible. Yet, it may be even
more startling to point out that some of the teachings of the Epicurean
sensualist are quite as good as some of those of the writers of the
sacred texts, and that those of the Greek poet are far better and more
spiritual! There is no denying that these are the facts, if we are to be
bound by literal interpretation, unless we throw to the winds all reason
and common-sense. This leads us back to the point previously mentioned; and we must
determine if the authorised version gives a full and truthful
interpretation of the Hebrew original. Even a man who does not pretend
to scholarship knows that it does not. The word "perish," for example,
is not found at all in the Hebrew text, nor is the idea expressed; the
words which our translation twice renders as "beasts that perish," is,
in the original Hebrew, "dumb beasts." By comparing a number of the
translations of the Psalms, into various languages–Psalm XLIX, for
example–we find that few, if any, of them suggest the idea of
"perishing" in the sense of annihilation. First, let us consider the
Jewish Bible, which is acknowledged to be the most accurate translation
in the English language, and carefully read it. In verses 12 and 20 of
the above Psalm, where the passage is found, the translation
reads: "Man that is in honour, and understandeth this not, is like the
beasts that are irrational." In a footnote the word "dumb" is offered as
an alternative for "irrational." Brunton's translation of the Septuagint
is similar, and reads: "Man that is in honour understands not, he is
compared to the senseless cattle, and is like them." Wycliffe's Bible,
which is translated from the Vulgate, reads thus: "A man whanne he was
in honour understood it not; he is compared to unwise beestis, and is
maad lijk to tho." The "Douay" Bible, put forth by the English Catholic
College of Douay and which is received by the Catholic Church in
England, gives the passage: "Man, when he was in honour, did not
understand; he hath been compared to senseless beasts, and made like to
them." Many other versions might be cited, and very few of them even
suggest the idea of annihilation. If, for argument's sake, we suppose
that the word "perish" has been correctly translated, it by no means
follows that annihilation is signified. Read, for example, the tenth
verse of the same Psalm in our authorised translation: "For he seeth
that wise men die, and likewise the fool and the brutish person perish,
and leave their wealth to others." Certainly no intelligent person would
interpret this passage as declaring that the wise and the foolish and
the brutish have no life after the body dies. It is plain, therefore, that we may dismiss forever the idea that the
Psalmist believed the beasts had no future life, and the citation may be
rejected as absolutely irrelevant to the subject, and the only one that
appears to make any definite statements as to the future life of the
lower animals. Every student of the Bible will at once recognise how
necessary it is that the original meaning of the Hebrew text should be
known, and that the Psalmist should not be accused of setting forth a
doctrine of such great importance, whether true or false, when he may
never even have thought or suggested it. MEN CRUELLY TAKE THE LIVES

MEN
CRUELLY TAKE THE LIVES OF THESE DENIZENS OF THE WILDWOOD, REJOICING IN
THEIR SLAUGHTER, BUT THE ANIMAL SOUL THEY CANNOT KILL. TWO PALS

TWO PALS. THERE IS BETWEEN MAN AND DOG A KINSHIP OF SPIRIT THAT CANNOT BE
DENIED. Having disposed of the possibility of a misunderstanding of the real
meaning of the "beasts that perish," let us consider the quotation from
Ecclesiastes, the only one that refers to the future state of animals. "Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spirit of the
beast that goeth downward to the earth?" We find an admission here that,
whether the spirit ascends or descends, man and beasts alike have the
immortal spark. The Hebrew version is precisely the same as our
authorised translation. Read, not an isolated verse, but the entire
passage:

"I said in mine heart concerning the estate of the sons of man, that
God might manifest them, and that
they might see that they themselves are beasts. "For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even the
one thing befalleth them; as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea,
they have all one breath; so that a man hath no pre-eminence above a
beast: for all is vanity. "All go to one place; all are of the same dust, and all turn to dust
again. "Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spirit of
the beast that goeth downward to the earth?