"Wherefore I perceive that there is nothing better than that a man
should rejoice in his own works; for that is his portion; for who shall
bring him to see what shall be after him?"

These verses tell their own story. It matters little whether Solomon
wrote this book in his later years; it is, in any event, the confession
of one who has had all the good things of this world, and who saw the
emptiness of them all, and who sums up life with the words "Vanity of
vanities, all is vanity." Finally the author ironically advises his
readers to trust only in the good of their labour. Thus it is shown that the quotation from the Psalms in no way
justifies the belief in the annihilation of beasts, and that the one
from Ecclesiastes has been entirely and wrongfully misunderstood and
interpreted. In no way do the Scriptures deny future life to the lower
animals, but in all ways, if intelligently understood, imply that man
and beasts have, equally, a share in a future life beyond the grave. As we have found out that the Scriptures, contrary to the popular
belief, do not deny a future life to our lower brethren, the animals,
let us see if they actually declare a future world for them in the same
way that they do for man. Man's immortality, as we know, is taught in
the Old Testament rather by inference than by direct affirmation. This
is possibly due to the fact that the writers of the manifold books,
which were at a late date selected from a large number and made into one
big volume which forms our Bible, thought as a matter of course that man
lived on after death, and never thought it necessary to assert that
which every one knew. But if we accept the teachings of the Old Testament, inference gives
much stronger testimony to the immortality of animals than it does to
the immortality of man, for while in neither case is there a direct
assertion of a future life, yet there is no direct denial of future life
to the animals, as has been shown to be the case with man. All Divine Law includes a protection for the
beasts, and the laws of the Sabbath were in essence a spiritual and not
only a physical ordinance. The ancient Scriptures have innumerable
provisions against mistreating or giving unnecessary pain to the lower
animals; and these provisions stand side by side in the Divine Law with
those which speak of man. Note, for example, the prohibition of
"seething a kid in its mother's milk." Again, there is a statement that
the ox in treading out the corn is not to be muzzled, lest he suffer
hunger in the presence of food which he may not eat. In the following sentences from the Book of Jonah, it is plainly seen
that the Deity has not failed to take notice of the animals: "And should
I not spare Nineveh, that great city, wherein are more than six score
thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their
left hand; and also much cattle?" Again, in the Psalms, "Every beast of
the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills. I know all the
fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of the field are mine."
Other passages that proclaim God as the protector of beasts, as well as
man, might be cited, for the Bible makes frequent mention of them. Each
of these Scriptures unquestionably proves that God has an interest in
all His creatures, and that each shares His universal love. No one can deny that Genesis, ninth chapter and fifth verse, refers
to a future life for beasts as well as man; it is a part of the law
which was given to Noah and which was the forerunner of the fuller law
handed down through Moses: "Surely, your blood of your lives will I
require; at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand
of every man; at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life
of man." According to the Mosaic law, an ox which kills a man is subject
to death, exactly as a human murderer. Why should the animal be punished
by death, if he has no soul to be forfeited? It should be remembered that while there are no Scriptural passages
that definitely promise immortality to animals, there are many which
infer it. Moreover, we should not expect to gain definite information on
the subject from the Bible, for it was written for human beings and not
for animals. If there are few direct references to the future life of
man, surely there must be still fewer to that of animals! But just as man has for countless ages had within himself an
everlasting witness to his own immortality, so do we find that all who
have really become acquainted with the lower animals, with their
unselfishness, parental love, devotion to duty,
generosity, wonderful mentality, and self-sacrifice–all those who know
them realise that they are subject to the same moral law as man and
share with him a future life. Lamartine beautifully expresses a future hope for his faithful
dog:

"I cannot, will not, deem thee a
deceiving,

Illusive mockery of human
feeling,

A body organized, by fond
caress

Warmed into seeming
tenderness;

A mere automaton, on which our
love

Plays, as on puppets, when their wires
we move. No!