Society is just awakening to the joy and the significance
of community art. This is everywhere indicated by the great growing
group of people who come together for a common music, either as a chorus
or an orchestra or both. But in this field man has not yet attained such
unity of communal effort as have the frogs. In the great swamps of the
world myriads of them gather from miles around, conscious of one
purpose, and by a marvellous understanding and co-operation create for
themselves a symphony with beauties and harmonies of its own, and such
as to stand unrivalled in man's musical world. In the great chorus are
voices from the lowest bass of the croaking bullfrog, squatting in the
marshes, to the myriads of tiny green tree tenors, between which are
millions of altos, contraltos, sopranos, coloraturas and other voices
not yet in our musical vocabulary. These are accompanied by all the
sounds of our orchestra and innumerable others of such delicate shades
and gradations as to defy the ear of man. If we listen to one of these
concerts, we will quickly recognise the tones of every familiar
instrument, such as the drum, pipe, horn, trombone, oboe, piccolo,
'cello, and violin. The greatest of these musical festivals directly
precedes the mating season, and is a dramatic instance of a
manifestation of an inner
rhythm which corresponds to an external periodicity. Among the oldest traditions of the Eastern world are those of
snake-charming by means of music. I have long been interested in this
strange phenomenon of Nature, and in company with a brilliant young
violinist visited a zoological park recently, and after securing
permission from the head keeper, entered the snake-house. The violinist
began by playing a few most sympathetic chords, first delicate and soft,
then sad, then gay, slow or tremulous. Near us, coiled in his immense
cage, was a large cobra–the snake which all legend claims is most easily
influenced by music. Almost immediately after the music began, the cobra
raised himself in a listening attitude, steadily gazed at us as though
he were viewing the future, spread his immense hood, and slowly began to
shake his head from side to side, as if he were trying to keep time to
the music. As soon as the music would change, his attitude changed
accordingly.