What more is there for us to learn of Nature's secrets? Only
an understanding of our lower brothers, the animals. III

ANIMALS AT
PLAY

"... About them frisking,
played

All beasts of the earth, since wild,
and of all chase

In wood or wilderness, forest or
den;

Sporting the lion romped, and in his
paw

Dandled the kid; bears, tigers,
ounces, pards,

Gambled before them; the unwieldy
elephant,

To make them mirth, used all his
might, and wreathed

His light
proboscis."

–Paradise Lost. That "one touch of Nature makes the whole world kin" is shown in no
clearer way than by the games and play of animals. Recreation is as
common among them as it is among our own children; and they seem always
to be artistic and even skilled in their play. Young goats and lambs
skip, jump, run races, throw flips in the air, and gambol; calves have
interesting frolics; young colts and mules have biting and kicking
games; bears wrestle and tumble; puppies delight in biting and tussling;
while kittens chase everything from spools of thread to their own
tails. But animal children grow up, and stop playing to a certain extent as
age advances, precisely as human children do. Each settles down into a
more practical condition of life. They dislike to have their games and
play disturbed, and if the mother dog growls because her playful son has
continuously tumbled over her while she was sleeping, or the cat-mother
slaps her kitten because he plays with her tail–it is a display of the
same kind of emotion that prompts a human mother to rebuke her child in
the nursery for making too much noise, or for throwing toys out of the
window. Animals, like ourselves, feel every sensation of joy, happiness,
surprise, disappointment, love, hope, ambition, and through their
youthful games an entire index of their future lives may be
obtained. This play has much to do with the physical and mental development of
the animals; and it is strange indeed that so few writers have
considered the subject of play in the animal world. Most of those who
have noticed the subject at all, drop it with a few remarks, to the
effect that it is "highly amusing," or "very funny," or "unbelievable,"
or "so like the play of children," without even a word of explanation of
the whys and wherefores of it. All animals have some kinds of play. Plutarch speaks of a trained
elephant that often practised her
steps when she thought no one was looking. No one who has ever visited a
zoological park and seen the crowded monkey and baboon cages can have
failed to note the wonderful play of these animals. Seals seem never to
tire of chasing one another through the water; while even the clumsy
hippopotamuses have diving games. Kittens begin to tumble and play before they are two weeks old. They
will roll and toss a ball, hunting it from the dark corners, lay in
silent wait for each other, and suddenly spring upon an unsuspecting
fellow-cat-baby's back, just as they will do later in life, when seeking
their prey. I have seen them play with a catnip mouse for hours at a
time, just as the mother cat plays with a real mouse. Brehm says that this is noticed in their earliest kittenhood, and
that the mother cat encourages it in all ways possible, even to becoming
a child with her children from love of them, as a human mother does in
the nursery with her child. The mother cat begins the play by slowly
moving her tail. Gesner considered her tail as the indicator of her
moods. The kittens, while they may not understand what this means, are
greatly excited by the movement, their eyes sparkle, their ears stand
erect, and slowly one after another clutches after the
moving tail. Suddenly, one springs over the mother's back, another grabs
at her feet, while a third playfully slaps her in the face with his
tiny, soft, cushioned paw. She, patiently and mother-like, lovingly
submits to all this treatment, as it is only play. DRYPTOSAURUS

DRYPTOSAURUS. THE PREHISTORIC ANIMALS, TOO, UNDOUBTEDLY HAD THEIR PLAY TIME, WITH
GAMES AND "SETTING UP" EXERCISES. POLAR BEARS

American Museum of Natural History, New York

A HAPPY
FAMILY OF POLAR BEARS. THE YOUNG CUBS WRESTLE AND TUMBLE, AS PLAYFULLY
AS TWO PUPPIES.