THIS PLAY HAS MUCH TO DO WITH THEIR PHYSICAL AND MENTAL
DEVELOPMENT. Many scientists have claimed that this so-called instinct should not
be classed as real play. However, such an authority as Darwin thought it
was play, and Scheitlin said that the cat let the mouse loose many times
in order that she might have the experience of catching it each time. No
mercy is shown the helpless mouse, which is the same to her as the toy
ball–in the same way as a real beetle and a toy beetle are the same to a
small child. Evidently the cat does not play with the mouse for the
delight in torturing it, but purely for practice that she may become
skilled in the art of catching it. The cat also exercises in springing
movements, and by studying the mouse's probable movements, learns to
acquire a knowledge and skill in mouse-ways otherwise impossible. The same cruel practice is found among leopards, panthers, and wild
cats. Brehm verifies the observation that many members of the cat family
practise torturing their victims in a horrible manner, pretending to
liberate them, until the poor
creatures at last die from their wounds. Lenz tells of a marten that
would play with its prey for hours when not hungry. Especially was this
true when marmots chanced to be his victims, and around these he would
leap and spring, dealing them terrific blows first with one paw and then
with the other. When hungry, however, he proceeded differently,
devouring them at once from teeth to tail. All the cat family, it seems, are fond of human companionship, and
take almost as much delight in playing with human beings as with their
own kind. This is especially true of the puma. Brehm tells of a tame one
that delighted in hiding at the approach of his master and springing out
unexpectedly, just as the lion does. Hudson claimed that the puma, with
the exception of the monkey, was possibly the most playful of all
animals. Travellers tell many interesting tales of the play of these
animals, especially on the Pampas of South America. Gross relates the experience of an Englishman who was compelled to
spend the night outdoors on the Pampas of the La Plata. At about nine
o'clock, on a bright moonlight night, he saw four pumas coming toward
him, two adult animals and two young ones. He well knew that these
animals would not attack him, so he quietly waited. In a short
time they approached him, chasing one another and playing hide-and-seek
like little kittens; and finally leaped directly over the man several
times. The mother cat would run ahead, calling to the little ones to
follow her. But she never disturbed him. At times an animal at play with another uses the same tactics and
methods employed on its prey. Of course, the value of such practice for
the tasks of later-life is evident. Dogs play hide-and-seek, tag, and
various chasing games for hours without resting. Among the negroes of
the South it is not uncommon to see a hound playing hide-and-seek with
the little pickaninnies. I have seen a hound peeping in and out among a
pile of brush to discover where the little ones were hiding, and at the
first sight of a little black face, he would lay low in anticipation of
a playful spring, or a sudden dash-away, with the expectation of being
chased by his friends. At times he would suddenly disappear toward his
home, and slyly slip around and approach the playground from an opposite
direction. Every one who has owned fox terriers knows how they will crouch in
the open grass and remain motionless, with quivering expectation for the
other playfellow to arrive, and when the one in ambush sees
the other coming he springs toward him, as though he were going to
destroy him! And when the two come together, they attempt to seize each
other by the necks, as they would do in a real conflict. A wrestle and
tussle ensues and when utterly exhausted from this play, the tired dogs,
like two fatigued children, run to their homes. Dogs are fond of playing ball, and will readily bring a ball or stick
to their master when he has thrown it. They will also go into the water
to bring out sticks that may have been tossed in for amusement. Eugene
Zimmerman had a young fox terrier that would set a ball in motion, when
there was no one to pitch it for him, by seizing it in his mouth and
tossing it up in the air. Monkeys and jaguars will also play ball, and
tame bears take great delight in wrestling, playing ball, and fighting
mock battles. OPOSSUM

American Museum of Natural History, New York

THE MOTHER
OPOSSUM IS NEVER HAPPIER THAN WHEN SHE HAS HER LITTLE ONES PLAYING
HIDE-AND-SEEK OVER HER BACK. FOX

THIS YOUNG
FOX CAME FROM HIS HOME IN THE WOODS DAILY TO PLAY WITH A YOUNG
FOX-TERRIER.