Everything that is came out of that which
was, and throughout the ages the ever-evolving organisms have been
developing out of the past, that they might ever be new. MINERS AND
EXCAVATORS

"When the cold winter comes and
the water plants die,

And the little brooks yield no
further supply,

Down in his burrow he cosily
creeps,

And quietly through the long winter
sleeps."

–(The Water Rat.)

There are many ground-dwellers in the animal world, and foremost
among them is the mole. This remarkable little creature is not only
gifted as a digger of canals and tunnels, but plans and makes the most
extraordinary subterranean homes. Sometimes he unites with his fellow
creatures and establishes whole cities with winding passages, chambers,
exits and entrances. In fact, he has not only an exquisitely arranged
home, but highways and roads that lead to his kingly hunting-grounds
which are as elaborate as that of a modern man of wealth and culture. Indeed his subterranean network of tunnels excels in complexity our
modern city subways. His engineering calculations never fail, and a
cave-in of his hallways is unknown. This little gentleman with the velvet coat is a genius of varied
accomplishments! But this is only true when the mole is in his proper sphere or home. There he can fight like a tiger, catch his prey both below and above
ground, build wells to collect and retain water, swim like a fish, and
do many things which would seem impossible, judging from his awkward and
clumsy manner above ground. His apparent awkwardness while out of his natural habitat is largely
due to the peculiar formation of his limbs, and the stupid appearance of
his small half-hidden eyes. These features seem to mark him to the
casual observer as a dull animal, yet in reality he is very active and
bright, and when at home displays his marvellous genius in many ways! His upturned hands become powerful shovels, and by the aid of an extra
bone, the sickle, which belongs to the inside of the thumb, he is
enabled to work like an athlete. His velvet-like hair stands straight
up, like the pile on velvet, and his tiny eyes are so hidden by hair
that they do not get injured. The eyes are not well finished from an
optician's point of view–but they serve admirably all the needs of the
mole's life. As dull and stupid as he appears, he is, considering his
size, the fiercest and most active animal in existence.