Sometimes he
ploughs along the surface of the ground, and exposes his back as he
works; but if the weather is dry, he ploughs deeply into the earth for
worms. He fills his storehouse with earth-worms for winter use, and he
finds it necessary to bite their heads off, which leaves them inert but
not dead. This cannot be done in the summer months without the heads
re-growing and the worms crawling away. The mole knows the exact
temperature best suited for keeping his meat fresh! A most interesting and beautiful family of miner-cousins of the moles
are the shrews. They are excavators of great ability, and because of
their nocturnal habits are rarely seen alive. They are very similar to
the mole, though much more handsome. Their domicile is built of dry
grass at the end of a tunnel. The shrew mole of North America is a ground-digger of great
ingenuity. He is second only to the mole in the extent and pretensions
of his engineering
and tunnelling. His eyes are very small and deeply hidden in his fur. During the day he constantly comes to the surface of the earth, and one
may catch him by driving a hoe or spade underneath him. Another underground-dweller is the elephant shrew of South America. He has a long nose, thick fur, short ears, and, unlike his cousins, he
loves to bask in the warm sunshine. At the least signal of alarm he
darts away to his subterranean home. As a mining engineer he is
unexcelled; he sinks his tunnels by first boring an almost perpendicular
shaft, and then making his burrows at an angle. It is a sad day for
earth-worms when he decides to locate in their vicinity! It is not an easy task to classify the homes of animals. Many of them
have characteristics that entitle them to be placed under several
groupings. The otter, for example, might be classed as a cave-dweller,
as he seeks refuge in caves; yet he also rears his young in underground
nests as a burrowing animal. But few naturalists believe that he does
his own digging. This is not surprising when we remember that there are
many other animals that live in caves and grottoes, and like the otter,
seek ready-made homes for their convenience. Among these may be
mentioned three American
salamanders, bats, and a few strange mice, who seek darkness and
constant temperature, and therefore find caves best suited to their
needs. The same is true of the weasel, who is thought to be a great
burrower, but in fact, like our remote cave-dwelling ancestors, makes
his home only in caves, in rocky crevices, and under the gnarled roots
of old trees. He is a bright-eyed little creature, with a slender
snake-like neck and red body. He is a great friend of mankind, as he
does more toward eradicating mice and other nocturnal depredators than
all the rat-catchers in the land. His home is quite ordinary compared to
that of the more ambitious underground-dwellers. A near cousin of the weasel, and a most ingenious engineer and miner,
is the badger. He is a tenement-dweller and builds his home in the deep,
shady woods. His home is rather pretentious with several chambers, and a
most delightfully furnished nursery which is warmly padded with dry
grass and moss. The badger, once so plentiful in England and America, is fast passing
away because of the increase of towns and cities. As soon as the forest
in which he dwells is drained and converted into farm land, the badger
disappears. He is driven from the soil where he once held sway, and is
one of
those unfortunate animals which are eliminated by man-made
civilisation. The fox of the Far North is a famous excavator, and his underground
home which shelters and protects him from the extreme cold is most
spacious. It is a strange fact that these cunning little animals rarely
make their homes away from others of their kind. Sometimes twenty to
thirty are found in close proximity. And their owners are unquestionably
the smartest, keenest, and quickest creatures that roam the wilds. While
some of their deeds are questionable, their quick wits and nimble bodies
excite our admiration. These arctic foxes really build small cities, and their semi-social
life may be accounted for by the peculiar suitability of the place which
they select for a habitation. Their homes are usually in a sandy hill,
where it is very easy for them to burrow; and the strangest part of the
whole city is that each burrow is complete and entirely independent in
itself. There are many winding paths and tunnels in each house, but each
belongs exclusively to its owner and never winds into a neighbour's
house. In case of danger the fox has many directions in which he may
escape. The nursery is the most carefully arranged of all the rooms. It is
rather small and is directly connected
with the main outer chamber somewhat like the nursery of the mole. So
skilfully is it situated that it sometimes happens a hunter will dig
into a fox's burrow and never discover the nest of young, and later the
clever mother will return to carry away her babes, which are usually
five to six in number. Adjoining the nursery are two or three storage
rooms filled with food for the winter. The number of bones usually found
in the basement indicates that a great variety of ducks, fish, hares,
lemming, and stoats are regularly eaten, and that the average fox family
does not want for food. The arctic fox is not only a beauty in his coat of pure white, but is
unusually brainy. Persecuted animals, like persecuted human beings,
become very wise. Nature is kind to the fox in his arctic home, and in
the winter turns his coat snow white so that he may easily escape his
enemies–especially men, who seek his beautiful fur and edible body. He
is skilled in his distrust of wires, sticks, guns and strings! No man
knows better than he the meaning of foot-tracks in the snow, and how
long they have been there, and which way they lead; thus, those that
survive their enemies have acquired extreme wisdom, and keep carefully
away from
everything that is at all suspicious to their eyes and nostrils. The Siberian fox is one of those wise creatures that has defied in a
most extraordinary way his handicaps, and, refusing to admit them, has
boldly selected the strangest dwelling-place known to the animal
world–the horn of the mountain sheep. This unique dwelling-place has
been the home of the Siberian fox for ages, and his ancestors have known
no other. The mountain sheep, which are giants among their kind, have
the longest horns in proportion to their size of any animal in
existence. The argali of Siberia is the largest of all sheep, and is
equal in bulk and weight to an average-sized ox, with horns
proportionally large. The horns of these animals are strikingly like
those of the Rocky Mountain sheep of America, except they are much
larger. They spring up from the forehead, tilt backward, then boldly
curve below the muzzle, before finally again pointing upward and
tapering into a sharp and delicate point. They are hollow, though
exceedingly stout and elastic, and strengthened on the outside by a
number of ridges or horny rings set very close together. They are found
in large numbers in this land of perpetual ice and snow, and it is
thought that they break from the sheep's heads very easily. It is not uncommon to find them lying in a spot which has been a
battlefield, where two sheep in attempting to settle some dispute have
fought and fallen. It is not long after they have thus fallen before
they are utilised by Mr. Fox. He stores himself carefully away in these
roomy horns, one of which Mrs. Fox uses as a nursery, finding it a snug,
safe, and warm place to rear her little family. The other varieties of foxes, especially the grey and red, are not so
skilled in home-making. This may be due to the fact that they do not
have need of such elaborate houses as their arctic cousins. Again, it
may be that the existence of numerous deserted homes of badgers, or even
rabbits, makes it unnecessary for them to spend their time in building
homes of their own. It is much easier to enlarge the ready-made burrow
of a rabbit than to dig a new tunnel, of course. If there is no ready-made burrow to be had, then the wise fox sets to
work and scoops out his own. Herein he sleeps all the day, and comes
forth only at night. A small chamber from the main room serves as the
nursery, and here the babies are born and nurtured. Nothing is more
beautiful than to see the entire family–mother, father, and
children–come forth at evening to play. The young are as
sportive as pups, but they never wander far from home. Their broad
heads, grey coats, short tails and awkward appearance would lead no one
to think that they were the children of handsome, nimble-limbed,
intelligent Mrs. Fox! Woe to the dog that enters Mrs. Fox's home! She is a pugilist of the
first order, and knows how to fight far better than the average bull
terrier. It requires a very savage dog to kill her, and he is apt to be
minus an ear when the battle is over. Red and grey foxes are similar in intelligence, but differ in many
other ways: the former are like the gipsies in always moving about from
place to place, while the latter stick to one general locality, although
their hunting-grounds may range for several miles in all directions. Red
foxes seem actually to enjoy being hunted by dogs; in most cases they
will outrun the dogs, and rarely seek protection from caves or
rocks. The grey fox, on the other hand, cares little for racing, but seeks
protection among rocky cliffs where the dogs are at a disadvantage. Here
none but the smallest canines may enter the holes and crannies, and they
are usually wise enough to stay out. Hunters are thoroughly familiar
with the tactics of the fox family, and therefore select the red ones
for their sport. The foxes are truly famed for their cunning, and when other animals
try to play tricks on them, the trick usually turns out in the foxes'
favour. During the winter season these wise creatures are sometimes hard
pressed for food. Birds and small animals are hard to catch, and the
farmers' chicken houses are closed. It is then that the wise fox needs
all his wit and wisdom, for he oftentimes becomes the hunted as well as
the hunter. His chief enemies are the puma and the timber wolf, but they
are seldom able to get him. The prairie-dog is so talented that he might be classed under several
headings; he is sociable, a burrower, and especially gifted in the art
of constructing underground "dog towns." He is rarely called by his
Indian name, Wish-ton-wish, and we know him only as the
prairie-dog. Evidently he was given this name because of his yelping
bark, which resembles the cry of a young domestic dog.