He is a good-looking but rather curious little animal. He has a
round, flat head, and garish-red fur, and a stout little body. He makes
an affectionate pet, and loves the society of human beings. When he
decides to start a town, he usually succeeds, for he is an exceedingly
prolific animal, and his extensive burrows seem to have no ends. They are rather large, and run to great depths. In the western part of
the United States, especially on the big prairies, the prairie-dog towns
often cover large areas. They are usually dug in a sloping direction,
and descend four to six feet in depth, and then suddenly rise upward
again. Hundreds of these little tunnels are dug in such close proximity
to each other that it is quite unsafe for cattle and horses to pass over
them. This is the chief reason why ranchmen do not like the otherwise
harmless little animals of the prairies. These dog towns are most curious, and a visit to one of them well
repays the traveller. Strangely enough, the prairie-dog is exceedingly
inquisitive and this very quality often costs the little animal his
life. Mr. Wood, in describing the prairie-dog's habits, says that this
wise little Westerner, when perched on the hillocks which we have
already described, is able to survey a wide extent of territory and as
soon as he sees a visitor, he gives a loud yelp of alarm, and dives into
his burrow, his tiny feet knocking together with a ludicrous flourish as
he disappears. In every direction similar scenes are enacted. The
warning cry has been heard, and immediately every dog within a hundred
yards repeats the cry and leaps into his burrow. Their curiosity,
however, cannot be suppressed,
and no sooner have they vanished from sight than their heads are seen
protruding from their burrows. Sometimes hundreds of them will be
peeping from their homes at one time, their beautiful eyes sparkling as
they cautiously watch the enemy's every movement. The prairie-dog is truly a tenement dweller, and his home is occupied
not only by his own kind, but by owls and rattlesnakes. Most naturalists
believe that these incongruous families live in perfect harmony; but it
is a well-known fact that the snake occasionally devours the young
prairie-dogs, and he must be considered by them as an intruder who
procured board and lodging without their consent. The owls, on the other
hand, are supposed to do no harm, although it may be that they also
occasionally feast on a tender young pup. The magnificent little animals known to scientists as vizcachas, and
whose homes are on the pampas of South America, are the most skilled
builders of underground cities in the animal world. Their villages or
cities are called "vizcacheras" and are provided with from ten to twenty
mouths or subway entrances, with one entrance often serving for several
holes. If the ground is soft, it is not uncommon to find twenty to
thirty burrows in a vizcachera; but if the ground is rocky and
hard, only
four or five burrows are found. These wide-mouthed, gaping burrows are
dug close together, and the entire town usually covers from one hundred
to two hundred square feet. The vizcacheras are different from other underground animal cities;
some of the burrows are large, others are small. Most of them open into
a subterranean main-street at from four to six feet from the entrance;
from this street other streets wind and turn in all directions, like a
man-made subway, and many of them extend clear into other streets or
subways, thus forming a complete network of underground passageways. All
the tunnelled-out dirt is brought to the surface and forms a large mound
to prevent the water from entering the cities. According to W.