H. Hudson, in The Naturalist in La Plata,
"in some directions a person might ride five hundred miles and never
advance half a mile without seeing one or more of them. In districts
where, as far as the eye can see, the plains are as level and smooth as
a bowling-green, especially in winter when the grass is close-cropped,
and where the rough giant-thistle has not sprung up, these mounds appear
like brown or dark spots on a green surface. They are the only
irregularities that occur to catch the eye, and consequently form an
important feature in the scenery. In some places they are so near
together that a person on horseback may count a hundred of them from one
point of view."

Unlike some burrowing animals, the vizcacha does not select a spot
where there is a bank or depression in the soil, or roots of trees, or
even tall grass; knowing that they only attract the opossum, skunk,
armadillo, and weasel, he chooses an open level plot of ground where he
can watch in all directions for enemies while he works. The great or main entrance to some of these underground cities is
sometimes four to six feet in diameter. A small man stands shoulder deep
in them. The going and coming of these little vizcachas would almost
lead one to believe that they have a primitive city government, and are
ruled according to definite laws. Their cities stand for generations,
and many of the old human inhabitants tell of certain vizcacheras around
them which existed when their parents were living. The founder of a new
village is usually a male; and he goes only a short distance from the
other villages to establish his new colony. These cities are by no means occupied by their builders alone, but
have their undesirables within their borders. The unique style of
burrowing which
the vizcachas employ benefits several kinds of birds, especially the
Minerva, and one species of the swallows, which build their nests in the
bank-like holes in the sides of the vizcacha's cities. Several insects,
among which may be mentioned a large nocturnal bug, with red wings and
shiny black body, also seek the same shelter; another foreign inhabitant
is a night-roaming cincindela, with dark green wing-cases and pale red
legs, which remind one of oriental jewels. There are also no less than
six species of wingless wasps, beautifully coloured in red, black, and
white. Dozens of spiders and smaller insects that live in and near the
vizcacheras, which are everywhere sprinkled over the pampas, pass in and
out among the streets recognising their respective friends and
enemies. The home life in these communities is most interesting. The burrowers
remain indoors until late in the evening during the winter, but in
summer appear before the sun sets. One of the larger males is the first
to appear, as if to see if everything is safe from danger; if it is,
others immediately pop up and take their places at the entrance to the
burrow. The females are smaller than the males, and stand up that they
may see everything that happens. Curiosity struggling within them for
mastery is often the cause of their death. Tiny
swallows hover over the entrances, like myriads of large moths, with
never-ending low, mournful cries. Of all the incongruous inhabitants of the vizcacheras, the fox is the
most dreaded and the least welcome. To appease his growls and snarls the
vizcachas are sometimes forced to let him occupy one of their rooms for
a season, or even permanently. During a part of the year he appears
quite unassuming and indifferent to the general affairs of the
household, and he really goes quite unnoticed, even though he may be
sitting on the mound in the family group. But when the vizcachas appear
in the spring, the fox begins to become interested in the nursery and as
soon as the older animals are away he devours the young. Occasionally,
if the fox is hungry, or if he has another friend to aid him, he will
hunt the vizcachera from end to end, battling with the old, and usually
killing all the young. It often happens that the mother vizcacha, when
her babes are large enough to follow her, will take them away to another
place that is safer. The language of these city-builders is most unusual; the males
frequently utter the most varied and astonishing cries. They are jarring
in the extreme, and are produced in the most leisurely manner,
growing louder and louder and finally ending with a slow quaver.