He is unusual in
appearance, dressed in brown and grey fur, with tiny white feet, small
eyes and ears, and a short stubby tail. His feet are wonderfully strong,
and his fore-paws are armed with strong, curved claws. But he is famed
for his wonderful fur-lined pouches which open inside his cheeks and
serve a peculiar use. His entire life, with rare exceptions, is spent underground. There he
makes long tunnels for the purpose of securing tender roots for food;
these tunnels are about twelve to eighteen inches below the surface, and
usually wind under the foot of a tree where a sinking passage goes down
four to five feet further and leads to a large living-room. This is the
family nest and nursery, lined with grass and soft fur which Mrs. Gopher
has taken from her own body. Adjoining the living-room is a storage bin
filled with nuts, dried bits of roots, tobacco, and potatoes. Much that is exaggerated has been said in regard to the adaptability
of the gopher for his work. But it is a fact that he is of all the
diggers best suited for his task. He uses his strong teeth, like a
trench-digger uses a pick, to loosen the earth; and while his fore-feet
are kept constantly at work in digging and pressing the dirt back under
the body, the hind feet also aid in shovelling it still farther back. When a sufficient amount has heaped up behind him, he performs the
strangest of all his feats–he turns around, and places his hands
vertically against his chin, thus forcing himself backwards, pushing the
dirt ahead of himself until it is forced out of the tunnel. At the outer
end of the tunnel is formed a little hillock. Dr. Merriam has made a special study of the gopher, and in speaking
of the strange habit of running backwards, he says that even in carrying
food to one of his barns or storehouses the gopher rarely turns round
but usually runs backwards and forwards, over and over again like a
shuttle on its track. The gopher uses his pouches for carrying food, not dirt. When he has
eaten a sufficient amount of food, he fills his pouches. If a potato is
too large to be
carried in this way, he trims it off to the right size. His method of
emptying his pouches is most interesting; with his two tiny paws he
delicately presses the food from his cheeks. The woodchuck is an American basement-dweller of considerable renown. His peculiar whistling cry has won for him from the French the name of
siffleur; and we sometimes call him by the very inappropriate
name of ground-hog. He is a skilled weather prophet, and his appearance
in the early spring signifies that the winter is over. He never shows
himself until the cold is gone. The home of the woodchuck is usually found under a hill, with a
sheltering rock to protect the entrance, which leads into a tunnel, from
twenty to thirty feet in length, finally ending by entering his home
proper. The tunnel descends obliquely for several feet, and again rises
towards the surface. His nest is rather large, and nicely lined with dry
grass and leaves, which serve as a carpet for the young woodchucks when
they come into the world. The young remain in the underground home until
they are about five months old, then they go out into the world for
themselves. The ground squirrel long ago decided that he would rather have a
dwelling under the ground than in the tree-tops, for in an underground
home he
would have more protection, a better place for storing food, and a far
safer nursery for rearing his precious babes. So snug, cosy and hidden
are the tiny quarters to which his runs or subways lead that his family
is quite safe against most enemies. The ingenuity and skill shown in the
construction of his home entitles him to rank among the leading animal
miners and excavators. The most unusual of all the underground and basement dwellers is the
polar bear. This wise inhabitant of the Far North has long ago learned
that no animal needs to freeze to death in the snow. To him the snow is
a constant means of warmth and protection, and as winter approaches, he
seeks a position, usually near a big rock, where he digs out a hole of
small dimensions, and allows the snow to cover his body. Strangely
enough it is only the female bear that seeks this permanent snow hut;
the males do not care to spend so much time in seclusion. The same is
true of the unmated females. But the mated females always have snow huts
in which they give birth to their young, and where they reside until
early spring; then the mother bear comes forth with them to seek food
and teach them the ways of the world. POLAR BEAR

American Museum of Natural History, New York

TO THE
POLAR BEAR THE ICE AND SNOW OF THE FAR NORTH MEAN WARMTH AND PROTECTION. THE MOTHER BEAR DIGS HERSELF INTO A SNOWBANK, WHERE SHE LIVES QUITE
COMFORTABLY THROUGHOUT THE WINTER. GROUND SQUIRREL

THE SHARP
CLAWS OF THE GROUND SQUIRREL ARE EFFICACIOUS TOOLS IN DIGGING HIS COSY
UNDERGROUND BURROW. There is no danger that the bears will stifle for air under the snow,
because the warmth of their breath
always keeps a small hole open at the top of the snow-cell. This
snow-house increases as time goes on, the heat exhaled from their bodies
gradually melting the snow. Often Mrs. Bear's home is discovered by
means of the tiny hole in the roof around which is collected quantities
of hoar frost. Hibernation is one of the strangest phenomena of the animal world,
and bears, especially the white bear of the polar regions, the black
bear of North America, and the brown bear of Europe, agree in the
curious habit of semi-hibernation. In the late fall of the season, the
bears begin to eat heavily and soon become enormously fat, preparatory
for the long winter of semi-sleep. During the winter, at least for three months, the polar bear takes no
food, but lives entirely upon the store of fat which her body had
accumulated before she went into retirement. The same is true of many
hibernating animals, but in case of the bears it is more remarkable
because the mother bear must not only support herself but nourish her
young for a long period without taking any food for herself. Another good example of a ground-dweller is the aard vark of Southern
Africa. He is as curious as his name, and scoops out immense quantities
of earth to form his home. This dwelling might be termed a cave, as he
heaps up the earth in the shape of a
mammoth artificial ant-hill; on one side is the entrance, which is so
skilfully formed that it looks far more like the work of man than of an
animal. His name is Dutch and means earth-hog. It is applied to him because
his head looks somewhat like that of a pig. His claws are powerful and
enormous, and with them he is able to dig into the hardest soil, and to
destroy the giant ant-hills which are dotted over the plains of South
Africa, and which can withstand the weight of a dozen men. This strange creature sleeps during the day, and comes forth at
evening to seek his food. The first thing he does is to burst a hole in
the stony side of an ant-hill, to the utter dismay of its tiny
inhabitants. As they run among the ruins of their fallen city, he throws
out his slimy tongue and catches them by the hundreds. In a short time
only the shell of a half-destroyed wall remains. These once stately ant-homes metamorphosed into caves, form homes for
the jackals and large serpents of the plains. The Kaffirs of Africa use
them as vaults into which are thrown their dead. The aard vark
outrivals, with his great claws, the most skilled burrowing tools of
man. These animals are therefore rarely captured.