It is not uncommon for
a horse to fall into their excavations and be killed. Miners, excavators, and underground dwellers teach us the great
lesson that, while many of them sought the ground as a protection, and
found there many difficulties to overcome, they not only have won in the
great struggle of life but have so skilfully adapted themselves to their
environment and surroundings as to become entire masters, even artists,
in their methods of living. VI

ANIMAL
MATHEMATICIANS

"But what a thoughtless animal is
man,–

How very active in his own
trepan!"

–Prior. Among the special senses of animals none seems more human than their
knowledge of mathematics. A recognition of this quality in animals is
encouraging because the new scientists are earnestly trying to build up
a true knowledge of animal behaviour by studying them in the light of
the new psychology. This will fill the place of the vast amount of
misinformation which those skilled only in book-knowledge, without
really knowing the ways of Nature, have builded. It will also record all
the strange and curious facts about animals and their ways without
insisting too much on rigid explanation. These new scientists are far
different from their predecessors who tried to explain everything they
did not understand about an animal's behaviour in terms of the scanty
information gained by studying a few museum specimens. We might
as well attempt to explain human nature from the study of an Egyptian
mummy. The new method is simply to give the facts about an animal, and
frankly admit that in many cases, such as are found in their knowledge
of counting and numbers, we must leave complete explanation to the
future when we shall have a greater fund of scientific data on which to
base our conclusions. It is an established fact that some animals can count, and that they
have the faculty of close observation and keen discrimination. They
learn to count quickly, but they do not fully appreciate the value of
numerical rotation. Most of the arithmetical feats of trained animals
are hoaxes regulated by their sense of smell, sight, touch and taste. But no one doubts their ability to count. I have known a monkey that
could count to five. He played with a number of marbles, and I would ask
for two marbles, one marble, four marbles, as the case might be, and he
would quickly hand the number requested. Another incident that will illustrate the point is the case of a mule
owned by an old negro near Huntsville, Texas. The regular routine work
of this mule was to cart two loads of wood to the town every day. One
day the negro wished to make a third trip, but was unable to do so. When
asked the
reason, he replied, "Dat fool mule, Napoleon, done decided we had hauled
enough wood fo' one day!"

Prantl claims that the time-sense is totally absent in animals, and
that it belongs only to man, as one of the attributes of his mental
superiority. However, many facts go to show that animals have not only a
specific time-sense, but also a sense of personal identity which reaches
back into the past. Time-sense is very highly developed in dogs, cats, hogs, horses,
goats, and sheep. They apparently are able to keep an accurate account
of the days of the week and hours of the day and night, and even seem to
know something of numerical succession and logical sequence. A friend in
Texas had an old coloured servant, whose faithful dog had been trained
to know that just at noon each day he was expected to carry lunch to his
master. I have seen the dog on more than one occasion playing with
children in the streets, suddenly break away without any one calling
him, or any suggestion on our part as to the time, and rush for the
kitchen just at the proper moment. No one could detain him from his
duty. This same dog, however, would on Sundays continue to play at the
noon hour. Surely, if any explanation is to be offered in such a case as
this, it will imply as strict a sense of time as it does of duty. A friend relates a case of a dog that went each evening to meet a
train on which his master returned from the city. On one occasion the
train was delayed two hours, and it was exceedingly cold, but the
devoted companion remained until his master arrived. Innumerable
instances of such all-absorbing affection, showing at the same time a
sense of time, might be cited. Dr. Brown gives a most remarkable example of a dog's ability to
distinguish time. The story is of a female dog, though named Wylie,
which was purchased by Dr. Brown when he was a young man, from an old
shepherd who had long been in his employment. Wylie was brought to his
father's, "and was at once taken," he says, "to all our hearts; and
though she was often pensive, as if thinking of her master and her work
on the hills, she made herself at home, and behaved in all respects like
a lady.... Some months after we got her, there was a mystery about her;
every Tuesday evening she disappeared; we tried to watch her, but in
vain; she was always off by nine P. M., and was away all night, coming
back next day wearied, and all over mud, as if she had travelled far.