Many shepherd dogs know if a sheep is missing from
the flock and go to hunt it. The efforts of scientific investigators, who work with so many
learned theories, have been less successful in discovering the real
facts about animals than of laymen, largely because the scientists have
not yet learned that arithmetical notions are more difficult than
geometrical ones. Our industrial civilisation has caused us to lose the
idea of the insignificance that number has in animal life compared to
the idea of size. Most animals have a remarkable sense of size; they
measure time and distance better than civilised man. A hyena, for
example, knows just how near he dare approach an unarmed man. A sense of time is common among animals that daily
eat at fixed hours. A donkey was accustomed to being fed at six o'clock
in the morning, and when on one occasion his master did not appear on
time, he deliberately kicked in the door to the barn and proceeded to
feed himself. Animals are capable of measuring lapses of time in which they are
particularly interested. Houzeau claims that a female crocodile remains
away from her eggs in the sand for twelve to twenty days, according to
the species, but returns to the place exactly on the day they hatch. Although we should hesitate to affirm that all animals have an
extensive knowledge of figures and numbers, yet it can hardly be denied
that the elephant, donkey, horse, dog, and cat, if given the proper
training, become good mathematicians. It is undeniable that they have a
love of mental acquisition, and it seems that the Creator has given to
every animal, as a reward for its limitations in other respects, a
definite innate knowledge and desire to advance educationally. There is
in the breast of every animal an irresistible impulse which urges it to
advance in the scale of knowledge. Where the animal is blessed with
other mental powers, there is found a perfect harmony–of tact,
intuition, insight, and genius–all that man himself possesses. VII

THE
LANGUAGE OF ANIMALS

"Who ever knew an honest
brute

At law his neighbours
prosecute,

Bring action for assault and
battery

Or friends beguile with lies and
flattery?"

The fact that all animals possess ideas, no matter how small those
ideas may be, implies reason. That these ideas are transmitted from one
animal to another, no one can doubt in the light of our present
scientific knowledge. "Be not startled," says the distinguished animal
authority, Dr. William T. Hornaday, "by the discovery that apes and
monkeys have language; for their vocabulary is not half so varied and
extensive as that of the barnyard fowls, whose language some of us know
very well." The means by which ideas are transmitted from one animal to
another can be rightly described by no other term than
language. It is evident that there are many kinds of language: the written; the
spoken; the universal, which implies the motion, sign, and form
language; the
language of the eye, by which ideas are exchanged without words or
gestures; and lastly, a mode of expression little known to the human
world, but universal among animals. This language is spoken by no man,
but is understood by every brute from the tiniest hare to the largest
elephant; it is the language whereby spirit communicates with spirit,
and by which it recognises in a moment what it would take an entire
volume to narrate. In its nature it differs essentially from all other
languages, yet we are justified in thinking of it as a language because
its function is to transmit ideas from one animal to another. Every form
of language is used by animals, and each has its own peculiar language
or "dialect" common to its tribe only, though occasionally learned by
others. All the emotions–fear, caution, joy, grief, gratitude, hope,
despair–are disclosed by some form of language. It would be interesting to know how the use of the word "dumb" ever
became applied to animals, for in reality there are very few dumb
animals. Doubtless the word was originally employed to express a larger
idea than that of dumbness, and implied the lack of power in animals to
communicate successfully with man by sound or language. The real trouble
lies with man, who is unable to understand
the language spoken or uttered by the animals. The gesture language is commonly used by many of the tribes of
Southern Africa, and some of the Bushmen are unable to converse freely
after dark, because their visible gestures are needed as an aid to their
spoken words. Only a few years ago there were almost as many different
languages among the North American Indians as there were different
tribes, and yet each tribe had a sign-language which any Indian in any
part of the world might understand. In fact it was so simple that it
might be practically mastered in a few hours, and through it one might
converse with the Indians of the world without knowing a single word of
their spoken language. And this is exactly what the animals do with
their universal language. Who does not understand the meaning of a dog when he approaches his
master, after receiving a reprimand for some misdemeanor, with downcast
head and lowered tail? Or who could fail to interpret the glee when he
has done a noble deed and been praised by his master? His is the
language of gesture and look, and is very similar to that in use by our
deaf-and-dumb men throughout the world. The Hindoos invariably talk to their elephants, and
it is astonishing how they understand. Bayard Taylor says that "the
Arabs govern their camels with a few cries, and my associates in the
African deserts were always amused whenever I addressed a remark to the
dromedary who was my property for two months; yet at the end of that
time the beast evidently knew the meaning of a number of simple
sentences. Some years ago, seeing the hippopotamus in Barnum's museum
looking very stolid and dejected, I spoke to him in English, but he did
not even open his eyes. Then I went to the opposite corner of the cage,
and said in Arabic, 'I know you; come here to me.' I repeated the words,
and thereupon he came to the corner where I was standing, pressed his
huge, ungainly head against the bars of the cage, and looked in my face
with a touch of delight while I stroked his muzzle. I have two or three
times found a lion who recognised the same language, and the expression
of his eyes, for an instant, seemed positively human."

Every one familiar with the habits of dogs believes that they have a
language. Certain shepherds are quite particular about the company their
dogs keep. This story is told of a couple of shepherds meeting in a
market-place in Scotland, each accompanied by his dog, one of which was
a sheep-murderer, the other a faithful and respectable dog. They
seemed to strike up a great friendship, "and soon assumed so remarkable
a demeanour in their conversation that their owners consulted together
on their own account, and agreed to set a watch upon them. On that very
evening both dogs started from their homes at the same hour, joined each
other, and set off after the sheep." It is unquestionable that these
dogs had a sufficiency of language to understand each other. The
criminal had invited his innocent young friend to join him in his
mischief, and they agreed upon the time to meet and each kept his
appointment. It is likely that there was not an audible sound uttered
during their conversation, but that they used the language of look and
gesture, and while it was not understood by their masters, it was
entirely comprehended by themselves. Another instance of canine language is given by John Burroughs, who
says that a certain tone in his dog's bark implies that he has found a
snake. There is an old maxim which says: "The empty wagon makes the most
noise," and it is interesting to note that the loudest-mouthed and most
loquacious of all the animals are the lemurs, who are the least
intelligent members of their great family. They chatter, scream, squeak,
and grunt from morning till night, and two of them can make more
noise than a cageful of apes and monkeys. The orangs and chimpanzees, on
the other hand, exceptionally wise and gifted linguists, seldom utter a
word or cry, except under extraordinary circumstances, and then
briefly. Prof. Richard L. Garner, who has spent much time in studying the
language of animals, has attracted a great amount of attention through
his special study of the anthropoid apes. He has lived among these
animals in a steel cage in their native haunts and has used a phonograph
to record their language. Prof. Garner told recently of an exceptionally
intelligent ape, named Susie, whose home used to be at the Zoological
Park, under the care of the Zoological Society, and he claimed that
Susie could speak "in her own language" at least five words. They were
"yes," "no," "protest," "satisfaction" and "contempt."

Mr. George Gladden, writing in the Outlook on the
chimpanzee's voice, did not exactly commit himself as to his belief
regarding this matter, but he says: "Now, although Mr. Engeholm (for
four years in charge of the Primates House in the New York Zoological
Park) has not been able to discover that his apes use any language,
correctly speaking, he is confident that the chimpanzees Susie, Dick,
and Baldy comprehend the definite
meaning of many words, and that their minds react promptly when these
words are addressed to them in the form of commands. This capacity is
more highly developed in Susie than in any other of the apes in this
particular group.... "It is difficult, of course, to determine from the commands which an
animal will obey precisely how many words employed in these commands are
plainly understood; but I have endeavoured to do this tentatively in the
case of Mr. Engeholm's commands to Susie, all of which I have seen her
obey repeatedly and promptly."

Mr. Gladden enumerates about forty-three commands which he claims to
have seen Susie obey promptly. And he further states that the belief
which many students of animal psychology hold that an animal gets more
of the meaning of a command from the gesture which accompanies the
command than he does from the actual words by which he is commanded, is
false, and he adds, "as to this, I can testify that of the forty-three
commands ... thirty-six may be, and generally are, unaccompanied by any
gesture whatever. How, then, does Susie comprehend those commands unless
through her understanding of the meaning of the words in which they are
conveyed?"

The distinguished phrenologist Gall had a dog
whose memory was remarkable, and he thoroughly understood words and
phrases. "On this subject I have made," says Gall, "the following
observations: I have often spoken intentionally of things which might
interest my dog, avoiding the mention of his name, and not letting any
gesture escape me which would be likely to arouse his attention.