W. Campbell in his Indian Journal gives two remarkable
instances of language and unity of work among animals which he saw at
Ranee Bennore, while he was on a hunting trip. He witnessed, one
morning, a striking case of wolfish generalship, which in his belief
proved that animals are endowed to a certain extent not only with reason
but are able to communicate their ideas to others. He was scanning the
horizon one morning to see if any game was in sight when he discovered a
small herd of antelopes feeding in a nearby field. In another remote
corner of the field, hidden from the antelopes, he saw six wolves
sitting with their heads close together as though they were in deep
conversation. He knew at once that they were also seeking venison for breakfast and
he determined to watch
them. He concealed himself behind a clump of bushes, and the wolves who
had evidently already decided upon their mode of attack began their
manÅ“uvres: one remained stationary, while the other five crept to the
edge of the field and one by one took the most advantageous positions,
the fifth concealing himself in a deep furrow in the centre of the
field. The sixth, which had made no previous movements, dashed at the
antelopes. The swift, graceful creatures, trusting in their incomparable
speed, tossed their heads as if in disdain of so small an enemy and
galloped away as though they were riding on the winds with their enemy
far behind. But as soon as they reached the edge of the field, one of
the hiding wolves sprang up and chased them in an opposite direction,
while his fatigued accomplice lay down to recuperate. Again the
light-heeled herd darted across the field, evidently hoping to escape on
the opposite side, but here again they met another crafty wolf who
chased them directly toward another of the pack. The chase had begun in
earnest, the persecuted antelopes were driven from place to place, a
fresh enemy springing up at every turn, till at last they became so
terrorised with fear that they crowded together in the center of
the field and began running around in diminishing circles. During all this performance, the wolf which was hidden in a furrow in
the centre of the field had not moved, although the antelopes had passed
around and over him dozens of times. He well realised his time for
action had not yet come and crouched closer and closer awaiting a signal
from his fellow hunters to spring into their midst, and down one of the
weakened antelopes. At this point Col. Campbell shot one of the wolves, and the other
five ran away and allowed the antelopes to escape. Surely no human
combination could have shown greater reason and concerted action than
was shown by the wolves under such conditions. Each had a particular
post assigned, and evidently some means of communication was used in
indicating their respective locations. Each had a definite part to play
in the complex scheme–so that their language quite evidently expressed
abstract ideas. That these ideas were carried out shows that the wolves
were capable not only of laying ambitious plans for capturing prey, but
of carrying them out as well. "That beasts possess a language, which enables them to communicate
their ideas," says Thomas Gentry, "has been clearly shown. It is just as
apparent
that they can act upon the ideas so conveyed. We have now to see whether
they can convey their ideas to man, and so bridge over the gulf between
the higher and the lower beings. Were there no means of communicating
ideas between man and animals, domestication would be impossible. Every
one who has possessed and cared for some favourite animal must have
observed that they can do so. Their own language becomes, in many
instances, intelligible to man. Just as a child that is unable to
pronounce words, can express its meaning by intimation, so a dog can do
the same by its different modes of barking. There is the bark of joy or
welcome, when the animal sees its master, or anticipates a walk with
him; the furious bark of anger, if the dog suspects that any one is
likely to injure himself or master, and the bark of terror when the dog
is suddenly frightened at something which he cannot understand. Supposing, now, that his master could not see the dog, but could only
hear his bark, would he not know perfectly well the ideas which were
passing through the animal's mind?"

There is no doubt that animals understand something of our human
language. They may not be able to comprehend the exact words used, but
it is evident they get the meaning to a certain extent.