G. Wood tells the following incident, which forcibly
illustrates the ability possessed by animals to commune with each other. "While I was living in the country with a friend, a most interesting
incident was observed in the history of the dog. My friend had several
dogs, of which two had a special attachment to, and an understanding
with, each other. The one was a Scotch terrier, gentle and ready to
fraternise with all honest comers. The other was as large as a mastiff,
and looked like a compound between the mastiff and the large rough
stag-hound. He was fierce, and required some acquaintance before you
knew what faithfulness and kindness lay beneath his rough and
savage-looking exterior. The one was gay and lively, the other, stern
and thoughtful. "These two dogs were often observed to go to a certain point
together, when the small one remained behind at a corner of a large
field, while the mastiff took a round by the side of the field, which
ran up-hill for nearly a mile, and led to a wood on the left. Game
abounded in those districts and the object of the dogs' arrangement was
soon seen. The terrier would start a hare, and chase it up the hill
towards the large wood at the summit, where they arrived somewhat tired. At this point, the large dog, who was fresh and had rested after his
walk, darted after the animal, which he usually captured. They then ate
the hare between them and returned home. This course had been
systematically carried on some time before it was fully understood."

Every animal has a definite language which is quite sufficient to
express the desires and emotions of its nature, and to make them
intelligible, not only to its own species, but also to other animals and
sometimes to human beings. Those which do not actually speak by means of
a voice, make signs or mimic understood things so as to be perfectly
intelligible. If animals had no language, they could not instruct their
young. The young of animals in a civilised country are far wiser than
the old ones in wild, uninhabited countries. This can be explained only
by the knowledge which the young receive from their parents. It is not uncommon for animals belonging to widely different species
to speak the same language, and thus become great friends. A friend in
Texas once owned a cow whose sole companion was a small
black goat. One day the young goat followed the cow home from her
grazing place, and from that time on they were constant companions, even
occupying the same stall in winter, sharing the same food, and always
sleeping near each other. If one shoots a monkey in South Africa, and wounds it, allowing it to
escape, there usually come droves of its kinspeople, screaming and
chattering the most diabolical language, seeking to revenge the wrong
done their tribe. Nothing demonstrates plainer that they have a common
language; otherwise, how could they understand that one of their number
had been wounded? It is because of the communication of ideas by a
common language among animals that hunters so fear to allow a wounded
animal to escape at the beginning of their hunting season in certain
localities. A wounded bear who escapes, for example, will spoil the
entire season for hunters by spreading the alarm among his people. COLOBUS

American Museum of Natural History, New York

ROOSEVELT'S
COLOBUS. THESE HORSE-TAILED MONKEYS CHATTER TOGETHER IN A LANGUAGE
EXCLUSIVELY THEIR OWN, YET THEY SEEM TO HAVE NO DIFFICULTY IN MAKING
THEMSELVES UNDERSTOOD BY OTHER MONKEY-TRIBES. TAMED DEER

American Museum of Natural History, New York

A TAMED
DEER OF TEXAS, WHOSE CONSTANT COMPANION AND PLAYMATE WAS A RABBIT DOG. BETWEEN THE TWO THERE DEVELOPED, NECESSARILY, A COMMON LANGUAGE.