And it
is quite as intelligible to us as is the chattering of the Hottentots of
Africa. Because we do not speak the languages of our animal friends does
not take away from the genuineness of the languages; we might as well
claim that because our horse does not comprehend what we are saying,
that we are not speaking a language! Animals and men, under normal conditions, have been friends and
companions since the beginning of time; and in order that they may
convey ideas to each other, it is necessary for them to have some sort
of means of communication. As a matter of fact, animal language is quite often intelligible to
man. Their language might be likened to that of a young child that
cannot pronounce distinctly the words we commonly use; and yet we get
the meaning from the intonation and gesture. Any man who has ever owned a horse understands the meanings of his
various actions and vocal expressions. There is the neigh of joy, upon
returning home after a hard day's work, the neigh of distress, when he
has strayed from his companions, the neigh of salutation that passes
between two horses when they meet, and the neigh of terror when enemies
are near. There is also the neigh of affection that is often given to
his master when they first meet in the morning. Thus, spoken words are
not necessary to express elemental feelings. Elephants readily understand most of the words uttered by their
masters. Menault tells of an elephant that was employed to pile up heavy
logs. The manager, suspecting the keeper of stealing the grain set aside
for the elephant, accused him of
theft, which he denied most vehemently in the presence of the elephant. The result was remarkable. The animal suddenly laid hold of a large
wrapper which the man wore round his waist, and tearing it open, let out
some quarts of rice which the fellow had stowed away under the
voluminous covering. Animals have the power to make themselves understood by man,
especially when they are in distress and wish man to help them. And they
often combine to help one another. I was on a sheep ranch in western
Texas once when one of the sheep came bleating up to the camp late in
the afternoon. She uttered the most distressing calls. A friend, whom I
was visiting, assured me that something unusual was wrong. Together we
followed the sheep back to where she had been feeding in the pasture,
she going forward in short spurts and continually looking back to see if
we were coming. She finally led us to an old well, and we heard the
plaintive voice of her young lamb that had fallen in. As the well had no
water in it, and was only about six feet deep, we secured a ladder and
in a few minutes the lamb was restored to its mother. She seemed
delighted at the successful outcome of the accident.