My sole purpose is to
make the reader
self-active, observative, free from hide-bound prejudice, and reborn as
a participant in the wonderful experiences of life which fill the
universe. I hope to lead him into a new wonderland of truth, beauty and
love, a land where his heart as well as his eyes will be opened. In attempting to understand the animals I have used a method a great
deal like that of the village boy, who when questioned as to how he
located the stray horse for which a reward of twenty dollars had been
offered, replied, "I just thought what I would do if I were a horse and
where I would go–and there I went and found him." In some such way I
have tried to think why animals do certain things, I have studied them
in many places and under all conditions, and those acts of theirs which,
if performed by children, would come under the head of wisdom and
intelligence, I have classified as such. Life is one throughout. The love that fills a mother's heart when she
sees her first-born babe, is also felt by the mother bear, only in a
different way, when she sees her baby cubs playing before her humble
cave dwelling. The sorrow that is felt by the human heart when a beloved
one dies is experienced in only a little less degree by an African ape
when his mate is shot dead by a Christian missionary. The grandmother sheep that watches her numerous little lamb
grandchildren on the hillside, while their mothers are away grazing, is
just as mindful of their care as any human grandparent could be. One
drop of water is like the ocean; and love is love. The trouble with science is that too often it leaves out love. If you
agree that we cannot treat men like machines, why should we put animals
in that class? Why should we fall into the colossal ignorance and
conceit of cataloging every human-like action of animals under the word
"instinct"? Man delights in thinking of himself as only a little lower
than the angels. Then why should he not consider the animals as only a
little lower than himself? The poet has truly said that "the beast is
the mirror of man as man is the mirror of God." Man had to battle with
animals for untold ages before he domesticated and made servants of
them. He is just beginning to learn that they were not created solely to
furnish material for sermons, nor to serve mankind, but that they also
have an existence, a life of their own. Man has long preached this doctrine that he is not an animal, but a
kinsman of the gods. For this reason, he has claimed dominion over
animal creation and a right to assert that dominion without
restraint. This anthropocentric conceit is the same thing that causes
one nation to think it should rule the world, that the sun and moon were
made only for the laudable purpose of giving light unto a chosen few,
and that young lambs playing on a grassy hillside, near a cool spring,
are just so much mutton allowed to wander over man's domain until its
flavour is improved. It is time to remove the barriers, once believed impassable, which
man's egotism has used as a screen to separate him from his lower
brothers. Our physical bodies are very similar to theirs except that
ours are almost always much inferior. Merely because we have a superior
intellect which enables us to rule and enslave the animals, shall we
deny them all intellect and all feeling? In the words of that remarkable
naturalist, William J. Long, "To call a thing intelligence in one
creature and reflex action in another, or to speak of the same thing as
love or kindness in one and blind impulse in the other, is to be blinder
ourselves than the impulse which is supposed to govern animals. Until,
therefore, we have some new chemistry that will ignore atoms and the
atomic law, and some new psychology that ignores animal intelligence
altogether, or regards it as under a radically different law from our
own, we must apply what we know of
ourselves and our own motives to the smaller and weaker lives that are
in some distant way akin to our own."

It is possible to explain away all the marvellous things the animals
do, but after you have finished, there will still remain something over
and above, which quite defies all mechanistic interpretation. An old war
horse, for instance, lives over and over his battles in his dreams. He
neighs and paws, just as he did in real battle; and cavalrymen tell us
that they can sometimes understand from their horses when they are
dreaming just what command they are trying to obey. This is only one of
the myriads of animal phenomena which man does not understand.