G. Wood speaks of the great individuality of character
which he has observed in dogs, and that they unquestionably understand
the human language. "There was in my pet greyhound 'Brenda,' there was
in my dear lurcher 'Smoker,' and there is now in my dear lurcher 'Bar,'
and in my three setters 'Chance,' 'Quail,' and 'Quince,' a refinement of
feeling and sagacity infinitely beyond that existing in multitudes of
the human race, whether inhabiting the deserts or the realms of
civilisation. "I cannot better define it than by saying that, if I give these dogs
a hastily angered word in my room, though they have never been beaten,
they will, with an expression of the most dejected sorrow, go into a
corner behind some chair, sofa, or table, and lie there. Perhaps I may
have been guilty of a hasty rebuke to them for jogging my table or elbow
while I was writing, and then continued to write on. Some time after,
not having seen my companions lying on the rug before the fire, I have
remembered the circumstance, and, in a
tone of voice to which they are used, I have said, 'There, you are
forgiven.' In an instant the greyhound Brenda would fly into my lap, and
cover me with kisses, her heart tumultuously beating. After she grew
old, her joy at my return home after a long absence has at times nearly
killed her; and when I was away, the bed she loved best was one of my
old shooting-jackets, but never when I was at home."

The impassable gulf which the writers of old created between mankind
and the animal kingdom was based mainly upon the belief that animals had
no language, but this has been proved a mistake and no longer exists. In
the light of modern knowledge and a better understanding of the
marvellous theory of evolution, we are thoroughly convinced that there
is no break whatever in the long chain of living beings. Man has no art,
has developed no thing whatever, no mode of language or communication,
that is not to be found in some degree among animals. They are capable
of feeling the same emotions as human beings, and are therefore subject
to the same general laws of life. No science has been more beneficial
than psychology in proving that they are human in all ways; no discovery
made by the human mind is so poetical and of such value as that which
leads mankind to recognise some part
of himself in every part of Nature, even in the language of animals. This knowledge of all life is recognised by thinking men the world
over, removing forever that artificial barrier by which, in his
ignorance and prejudice, he has separated himself from his lower
brothers, the animals, denying unto them even a means of intelligent
communication. This recognition of the existence of a common language
will go far toward establishing the universal brotherhood of all living
creatures. VIII

IN THEIR
BOUDOIRS, HOSPITALS AND CHURCHES

"Never stoops the soaring
vulture

On his quarry in the
desert,

On the sick or wounded
bison,

But another vulture,
watching

From his high aerial
look-out,

Sees the downward plunge and
follows,

And a third pursues the
second,

Coming from the invisible
ether,

First a speck and then a
vulture

Till the air is dark with
pinions."

Many animals show a surprising knowledge of medical and sanitary
laws, but these laws vary in the different species as much as they do
among humans. Animals are divided into as many classes and social castes
as are mankind; and those that have advanced beyond the nomadic life,
and have fixed homes with servants and luxuries, naturally are more
refined in the matter of their personal care. Science may yet prove that the old legend of the mermaid sitting on a
rock, with a glass and comb in her
hand, was not so far from truth as we imagine. No doubt, the bright-eyed
seals looked like sea-maidens to many ancient mariners. The originator
of the mermaid stories had possibly seen seals making their toilettes. These beautiful and affectionate human-like creatures of the water,
wear, attached to their front flipper, a handsome comb-like
protuberance. When they rest on the rocks, they use this little comb to
brush the fur on their faces; and the Northern fur-seals, when the
weather is warm, use their flippers as fans. The secret of teaching
seals to play tambourines is due to their desire to comb their fur and
fan themselves! Members of the cat family are, perhaps, the cleanest of all animals,
with the exception of some of the opossums. Lions, panthers, and pumas
dress themselves very much as the domestic cat performs her toilette. They use their feet, dipped in water, as wash cloths, and their tongues
as combs and brushes. Hares also use their feet to wash their faces, and
this they do very often, to keep their exquisite hair in perfect
condition. Dogs enjoy wiping their coats against green grass and
shrubs. Certain animals are so fastidious that they have community
beauty-parlours! Goats, deer, giraffes, and antelopes, for example, are
very particular
about their personal neatness and cleanliness, and they come together to
assist each other in making toilettes. One of the reasons that animals
suffer so much in captivity, especially when alone, is that they have no
one to help them dress, and some of them, such as the giraffe, cannot
reach all parts of their bodies. I have seen a young guinea pig that had
been rescued from a mud puddle being cleaned by both of his parents. Water-loving animals, like the beavers, seemingly take great pride in
their toilettes, and in this respect they show more human traits than
any other animal. It is a general belief that animals are quite care-free, and that
when they awake in the morning there is nothing for them to do but play
or wander about. This is a mistaken belief, for they have to dress
themselves, and this not only means a bath in many cases, but a
smoothing out of their fur and hair. Some are shy and seek the darkest
places to dress themselves, others, like the dog and cat, seek the
hearth. Every one has possibly seen a cow and horse licking each other,
and it is generally believed that this implies special friendship
between the two, but this idea is incorrect; it only implies mutual aid
in making their toilettes. They have a beauty parlour, and thus aid each
other. In no way are animals better prepared to teach man than in their
methods
of personal cleanliness, and this means health. Their utilisation of
clay, dust, mud, water, and even sunshine to keep their health, far
exceeds that of mankind. In fact, man's first knowledge of simple,
natural health remedies came from animals. This wisdom they have
acquired by ages of instinct and reason, for theirs has been the normal
life, whereas man's is often abnormal. Each animal is his own
specialist. However, when an animal becomes too ill to doctor himself,
he is treated by another. I have seen a horse licking the wound of one
of his fellows to stop the pain. BEAVERS

American Museum of Natural History, New York

WATER-LOVING
ANIMALS, LIKE THE BEAVERS, SEEMINGLY TAKE GREAT PRIDE IN THEIR
TOILETTES. THEIR FUR IS ALWAYS SLEEK AND CLEAN. FOREST PIGS

American Museum of Natural History, New York

GREAT
FOREST PIGS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. LIKE THE COMMON DOMESTICATED HOGS, THEY
WILL SEEK A CLAY BATH TO HEAL THEIR WOUNDS. Animals know better than man what kind of food they need, for the
simple reason that their tastes are natural, while man has allowed his
to become perverted. In times of sickness absurd practices have been
observed. Ice-cream and buttermilk, for example, were for ages refused
to typhoid fever patients, while to-day they are generally used under
such circumstances. But the natural desire for sour and cold things was
always in evidence; animals have always depended upon these desires. Among them are skilled dietitians, who restrict their diet in case of
illness, keep quiet, avoid all excitement, seek restful places where
there is plenty of fresh air and clean water. If a dog loses his
appetite, he eats "dog grass," while a sick cat delights
in catnip. Deer, goats, cows, and sheep, when sick seek various
medicinal herbs. When deer or cattle have rheumatism, they invariably
seek a health resort where they may bathe in a sulphur spring and drink
of the healing mineral waters. They also know the full value of lying in
the warm sun. Cats are skilled physicians, and have various home remedies, such as
dipping a feverish foot into cold water, or lying before a warm fire, if
they have a cold. Many animals know how to treat a sore eye–by lying in
the dark, and repeatedly licking their paws and placing them over the
afflicted member. How wonderful would the human race become, if it had the strength of
a lion, the power of a bear, the wisdom of an elephant, the cleverness
of a fox, and the health of the wild boar! But these qualities are found
chiefly among the animals because of the marvellous knowledge of the
laws of health and self-preservation. John Wesley claimed, in his directions on the art of keeping well,
that many of the medicines which were used among the common people of
his time were first discovered by watching animals in their medical
practices to cure their ills and pains. "If they heal animals, they will
also heal men," he
claimed. The American Indians learned most of their cures from watching
animals, especially the cure of such diseases as fever, rheumatism,
dysentery, and snake-bites. A rheumatic old wolf would bathe in the warm
waters of a sulphur spring; a sick and feverish deer would eat the fresh
leaves of healing ferns, while a wounded hog or bear would always seek a
red-clay bath to heal the wounds. Sick dogs will invariably eat certain
weeds, and an unwell cat will seek healing mints and grasses. Old hunters tell us that a deer after having been chased for several
hours by dogs, and after having escaped them by swimming a cold stream,
will, upon reaching safety, lie down in the ice and snow. If a man did
such a thing, he would immediately die. But not so with the deer, for he
will arise about every hour and move around to exercise himself, and on
the morrow he is perfectly well. The same animal, shut up in a warm barn
for the night, as has many times been demonstrated with circus animals,
will be dead by morning. From this natural method of healing, mankind may learn much, and
especially as it pertains to the treatment of extreme heat, cold,
exhaustion, and paralysis of the muscles, and most especially sores and
wounds. I have seen a wounded hog that had been
badly bitten by a dog, wallow in rich red mud to stop the flow of
blood. It is a common practice for a raccoon actually to amputate a diseased
leg, or one that has been wounded by a gunshot, and wash the stub in
cool flowing water. When it is healing, he licks it with his tongue to
massage it, and also to stop the pain and reduce the swelling. This
wisdom is often classed by the unknowing under the term instinct,
whereas it displays no less skill and knowledge than that of our modern
surgery. The intelligence of the raccoon stands very high in the animal
world. Foxes, when caught in a trap, will very often gnaw off a limb. This
requires a special power and a moral energy that few men possess. William J. Long, in the Outlook, tells of an unusual proof
of animal surgery in the case of an old muskrat that had cut off both of
his forelegs, probably at different times, and had grown very wise in
avoiding man-made traps, and when found, had covered the wound with a
sticky vegetable gum from a pine tree. "An old Indian who lives and
hunts on Vancouver Island told me recently," said Mr. Long, "that he had
several times caught beaver that had previously cut their legs off to
escape from traps, and that two of them had covered the wounds thickly
with gum, as the muskrat had done. Last
spring the same Indian caught a bear in a deadfall. On the animal's side
was a long rip from some other bear's claw, and the wound had been
smeared thickly with soft spruce resin. This last experience corresponds
closely with one of my own. I shot a bear years ago in northern New
Brunswick that had received a gunshot wound, which had raked him badly
and then penetrated the leg. He had plugged the wound carefully with
clay, evidently to stop the bleeding, and then had covered the broken
skin with sticky mud from the river's brink, to keep the flies away from
the wound and give it a chance to heal undisturbed. It is noteworthy
here that the bear uses either gum or clay indifferently, while the
beaver and muskrat seem to know enough to avoid the clay, which would be
quickly washed off in the water."

Animals not only know how to doctor themselves when they are sick,
but some of them, such as the fox, have learned how to make artificial
heat by covering green leaves with dirt. And while they do not make
fire, their homes are often heated in this practical way, and thus
sickness avoided. Domestic horses and dogs wear hats in summer, and
possibly in the future they will learn the enormous importance of
wearing clothes! Trained monkeys
already take great delight in dressing up, and dogs like smart
suits. Monkeys show the greatest interest and brotherly love when one of
their number is injured. Watson tells of a female monkey that was shot
and carried into a tent. Several of her tribe advanced with frightful
gestures, and only stopped when met with a gun. The chief of the tribe
then came forward, chattering and remonstrating vigorously. But as he
came nearer, there was every evidence of grief and supplication for the
body. As he was given the body, he affectionately took it in his arms
and slowly moved to his companions, and like a silent funeral procession
they all walked away. Nor does their interest cease with life, for we are told by no less
authority than Col. Theodore Roosevelt of a large grizzly bear that was
discovered lying across the trail in the woods. The hunter shot her as
she was preparing to charge him, and later he examined the spot where
she was lying, and found that it was the newly made grave of her cub.