Evidently some animal had killed the cub in her absence, and she, in her
grief, was determined to avenge the wrong by lying in wait for the
enemy. Public meetings for civic council and religious worship are not
confined to man alone. In Macgrave's History of Brazil we are
told of a species of
South American monkey known as the ouraines, which the natives call
preachers of the woods. These highly intelligent creatures assemble
every morning and evening, when the leader takes a place apart from the
rest and addresses them from his pulpit or platform, Having taken his
position, he signals to the others to be seated, after which he speaks
to them in a language loud and rapid, with the gestures of a Billy
Sunday, the audience listening in profound silence. He then signals
again with his paws, when all cry out together in apparently confused
noises, until another signal for silence comes from their leader. Then
follows another discourse, at the close of which the assembly disperses. Macgrave attempts no explanation as to the object of these addresses;
but if his accounts be true, surely they must have as much meaning for
the monkeys as many of our public lectures and church services have for
us! No doubt much of the advice imparted concerns the personal and
collective welfare of the tribe members. IX

SELF-DEFENCE
AND HOME-GOVERNMENT

"In the days of yore, when the
world was young,

Sages of asses spoke, and poets
sung;

In God's own book we find their
humble name,

Some enrolled upon the scroll of
fame."

There is no phase of animal life which is more interesting than that
through which Nature governs and protects her children. Each and every
species of animal possesses the method of self-defence and protection
best adapted to it. Most of the larger animals are of themselves so
powerful that they need no protection other than that afforded by their
strength, while most of the weaker and less aggressive animals are
provided with some special method of defence. The tiger, lion, panther, and wolf have formidable claws and teeth;
while the shark has such immense jaws that he can sever the head of a
goat at one bite. And most of them are in reality tyrants. They rule by
tyranny–the oppression of the weak by the strong, whether that strength
be physical or
mental,–a trait as common in animals as in man. Among the animals it
takes the commonest form, and they not only oppress the weak, but
actually kill and eat them, even though they oftentimes are members of
the same family. They are exactly like human cannibals, no better and no
worse. Flight is perhaps the simplest and most natural method of defence. The swifter animals, however, such as deer, gazelles, and hares, which
may easily escape by running their fastest, do not always use this
method, but have other means so ingenious as to be real arts. Wolves,
when they see that they are outnumbered, will sometimes escape by
following the exact tracks of a single leader through the snow, and from
all appearances only one has passed the way over which a hundred may
have gone. Hares will separate and run in opposite directions, while
gazelles, if too closely pursued, will jump to one side and lie flat on
the earth to escape notice, and as soon as the enemies have passed, run
in the opposite direction. It oftentimes happens that aggressively disposed animals, like
cowardly men, are apt to try battle with the unlikeliest adversaries. A
missionary from India tells the story of an alligator who was enjoying a
noonday sleep on the bank of a river, when an
immense tiger emerged from the jungle, made straight for the sleeping
saurian until within leaping distance, when he sprang on the alligator's
back, and gained a strangle hold before the sleeping monster could
awake. At first the tiger was master, for the alligator could not bring
his huge jaws into action, and while lashing viciously at the tiger with
his tail, he was dragged into the jungle. What happened there no one
could see, but in a few moments the tiger dashed out of the jungle and
disappeared in the cane brakes, and the alligator reappeared and crawled
into the water. The ape and the baboon are the most skilled of all animals in making
their flight. They use every method known to man, and because of their
swiftness of action excel man in certain ways. Like man, in the face of
danger, they show great bravery and never lose their presence of mind. The ape is fast disappearing before man, but against other animals and
Nature he can well protect himself. He is even braver than the lion, who
in captivity allows himself to be petted, but rarely is this true of the
ape, and then only when conditions seem insurmountable. In making his escape from an enemy, the ape directs his flight in the
most self-possessed and human-like way, never losing his head, and
taking
advantage of the first shelter or protection that he meets; if the
young, or females, or aged linger behind, a strong army of males bravely
returns to rescue them at the danger of losing their own lives. Many of
their brave deeds, if recorded in history, would compare favourably with
those of mankind! Too often has a poor, sickly ape, which by his very
feebleness allowed himself to be captured and placed in a zoo, been
compared to human beings. Even in spirit and movements he has been
considered as a human caricature and heaped with ridicule. We have
continually considered his defects, without noticing his better
qualities. We would have a much higher idea of his great family, if we
would take a human derelict and compare him to an ape ruler! This
comparison would be more just. Certain of the baboon tribes which live among the rocks of high
mountains and cliffs, if pursued by enemies, protect themselves by
ingeniously rolling immense stones down upon their foes. They also hurl
with great force small stones about the size of one's hand. As these
tribes have each from one hundred to three hundred members, they
constitute a formidable grenade army! In addition to their skilled methods of flight, the baboons, apes,
and monkeys come next to certain of the cat tribes as the greatest
fighters in the animal
world. This is astonishing when we remember that these animals are not
professional warriors, nor do they have to fight to obtain their food. Their greatest defence is their quickness and powers of biting. When
they are attacked by a dog, they usually bite off a foot or an ear, or
leave him minus a tail! One of the bravest and fiercest of fighters is the bull-dog. Three of
these animals together have been known to capture and hold a large bull. Deer, when fighting among themselves, often play more than anything, and
are not serious. Red deer seldom injure one another with their long
antlers, but they could easily kill a dog or even a man. Stags, however,
often fight to death, in some instances locking horns and tumbling over
a precipice. The most ingenious of all the horned fighters is the sable antelope,
whose clever system of self-defence might well be taught in war-schools. His horns are long, sharp-pointed, and bend backwards. When wounded, or
attacked by wolves or dogs, he lies down, and scientifically covers his
back by rapid fencing with his pointed horns. He can quickly kill any
dog that attacks him in this way. Occasionally great battles take place between a buffalo and a lion,
or more often two or three lions attack a buffalo, who rarely escapes
them. The strength
of a lion is almost beyond our comprehension when we remember that one
can actually carry a cow over an ordinary-sized fence. MOUNTAIN GOAT

American Museum of Natural History, New York

THE ROCKY
MOUNTAIN GOAT HAS MANY MEANS OF DEFENCE, NOT THE LEAST OF WHICH IS HIS
AGILITY IN CLIMBING TO INACCESSIBLE PLACES. WILD BOARS

American Museum of Natural History, New York

WILD BOARS
ARE AMONG THE MOST FEROCIOUS OF ANIMALS. BY MEANS OF THEIR GREAT
STRENGTH ALONE THEY ARE WELL ABLE TO DEFEND THEMSELVES. A most unique fighter is the giraffe. He has neither claws nor sharp
teeth with which to defend himself; so, if he gets angry with one of his
kind, he deliberately uses his long neck like a pile driver would use a
sledge hammer. Swinging it round and round, he lets his head descend
upon his adversary like a heavy ax! The two animals use the same kind of
tactics, and bracing themselves so as to stand the blows, they fight
until one has to give in. Their heads are furnished with two small
knob-like horns which only protect them from the heavy blows without
serving as offensive weapons. Most singular and amusing of all methods of self-defence are those
which entirely depend for their efficiency upon bluff, or pretence. The
chameleon, for example, erects his snake-like hood, though he is
harmless, and at the most could scarcely injure the smallest animal. Equally curious are the methods of skunks and polecats, which project
against enemies a highly disagreeable fluid. Passive modes of defence are as many and varied as are the active;
one of the strangest and most inexplicable of these is that known as
spontaneous amputation, technically termed autotomy. The
lizard, for example, when captured, will abruptly break loose his tail
in order to escape; and certain wood rats, when caught, loosen the skin
on their tails and deliberately slip away. Autotomy not only permits
flight, but also defends the animal against the most adverse conditions. Nearest akin to this–defence by means of amputation–is the practice of
bears and raccoons of amputating their limbs when caught in steel
traps. Mimicry, which is treated under another chapter, comes under the head
of passive defence, and form and colour play an important part in it. Strangely enough, animals which have never resorted to mimicry as a
means of protection, when associated with others who practice it, take
on the habit themselves. This may possibly be due to the fact that new
enemies are constantly arising. As human sharpshooters dress in garments of the same colour as the
woods in which they hunt, so many animals use this principle of
imitation. The colour of most animals is very similar to their
surroundings. This enables them to lie in wait for prey, a practice as
old as the hillsides with animals. They have learned the extreme value
of silence, and that they must remain at times motionless. This is
especially noticeable with crocodiles, which wait for whole days without
moving, concealed in the
water or deep grass, until their prey comes within striking distance,
when they pounce upon it. The same is true of the python snake, which
hangs from a tree so immovable that he appears like a vine or a branch
of the tree. If an animal attempts to pass, he drops upon it. Perhaps the most unique and successful method of passive defence is
the feigning of death, or "playing 'possum" met with in several animals,
such as the red fox, the opossum, occasionally the elephant, and several
of the snakes. On many occasions I have been 'possum hunting in the
South and found my dog barking at an apparently dead 'possum. As soon as
these animals are approached by larger and stronger enemies, they drop
absolutely motionless on the ground and close their eyes as though they
were dead. Here they remain until the enemy either destroys them,
carries them away, or leaves them alone. If left alone for a few
moments, they immediately spring to their feet and make their
escape. Elephants often feign death when captured, in order to gain their
liberty. Animal catchers tell many interesting tales of elephants
feigning weakness from which they fall to the earth and later apparently
die. In many instances the fastenings are removed from their legs and
head and the
carcass is abandoned as useless, when to the utter astonishment of
all–before the captors get out of sight–the animal springs up and dashes
away to the forest, screaming with joy at the triumph of its
deception. Many animals deliberately assume a frightful, terrifying or grotesque
appearance. This they do by inflating their bodies, by erecting hair,
skin, or folds, or by unusual poses. Darwin speaks of the hissing of
certain snakes, the rattle of the rattle-snake, the grating of the
scales of the echis, each of which serves to frighten or terrify the
enemy. Bluffing is another form of defence that many animals use. The cobra,
for example, when disturbed, raises its immense hood in a most
terrifying attitude! Many of the lizards use the same tactics; while the
horned toads of America when disturbed actually eject blood from their
eyes. Every one is familiar with the cat's habit of raising the fur on
his back when molested by a dog. All bluffing animals, when in danger,
try to assume a pose that will make them look most dangerous and
impressive to their enemies, and there is little doubt that in most
cases they succeed very well, for we have all seen a dog slink away from
a menacing cat. The elk or moose, whose home is in the northern part of America and
Europe, is a powerful and
large animal, sometimes seven feet in height, and is able to endure much
cold. He has many enemies among animals and mankind, and during the
summer season he is quite able to protect himself, but in winter there
is considerable danger from hordes of wolves. This is especially true
just after a heavy snowstorm, if the snow is wet and melting. When it is
dry and frozen, he can travel over it with great speed, and this he does
by a most unusual trot which carries him along much faster than the
trotting gait of a horse. Thus he is able to escape the hungry,
carnivorous wolves, whose courage increases with appetite. If crowded
too close, he is able also to protect himself by the most terrific blows
of his fore-feet. But when the spring weather sets in, and the snows begin to melt
underneath, leaving the upper crust sufficiently strong to support the
weight of lighter and smaller animals, such as wolves, especially when
they travel swiftly, he is in great danger. For with every step he sinks
to the belly in the snow, while his enemies can walk right up to his
head and shoulders without his being able to strike or paw them with his
dangerous hoofs. The advantage seems to be with the wolves, and if ever
they bring the moose to bay in the snow, his life is doomed. For they
care little for his arrow-like
horns, but boldly jump at his throat and kill him. Herein comes the
elk's wisdom–he deliberately sets to work, before the snow melts, and
builds for himself and family an elk-yard, which is nothing more than a
large space of ground on which the snow is smoothed or trampled down
until it becomes a hard surface on which he can walk; it is also
surrounded by a high wall of snow, through which are certain exits that
allow him to pass out, if he desires. All the enclosed space is not
smoothed down, but parts of it only are cut up into roads through which
he may pass very swiftly. Woe unto the daring wolves that enter his
snowy fortification–his "No Man's Land"–- for sure death awaits
them! A sense of law, order, government; the sacredness of family ties–all
these aid in the protection of animals. Family life with them originated
just as it did in the human world. The social instinct and the moral
sentiments which arise from social relations in man and animal are the
same. Moral obligations, especially in relation to family ties and
conjugal unions of animals, are in many cases sacred binders to such
ties. The bear, for example, is proverbial for his conjugal
faithfulness. The married life of most animals is strictly moral, and
most of them are monogamists and have reached the highest form of family
association and life. In those places where they live promiscuously, it gives them the same
protection in herds as it does among our lower savages. Cattle, sheep,
and horses unite for mutual protection; wolves band together in packs;
and after they have been domesticated there is still not only a strong
desire to band together for social purposes, but also to hold courts of
justice. It sometimes happens that an angered husband takes the law in
his hands, like uncivilised men, and beats his wife. In the development and organisation of social and civil life the
horse and the goat hold the foremost position. It corresponds to that of
man among the lower animals. They do not believe in monarchies, but
strictly in republics, or rather, a democracy where all power comes from
the working class. The claims of the working class to the exercise of
supreme control in all political affairs are practically realised. Among
a herd of wild Arabian horses, the leading stallion, or so-called king,
is really only the father of the tribe; his functions are paternal
rather than regal. If he may be said to reign in a certain sense, the
true workers rule, and his scouts and sentinels obey his wishes which
the workers have influenced and formulated. The existence of but one king leaves no room for dynastic troubles
and rivalries which disturb, so
often, our human countries and empires with such dreadful results. If
two rival kings arise at the same time in a herd of horses, instead of
forming factions in the state which end in civil war, they fight it out
personally until one of them is killed or defeated. Once in a great
while the other horses intervene, and drive the less desirable, or the
false-claimant of power, away from the herd and its grazing territory. In these troubles the real king has little or no power, all activities
are carried on by the workers. If by chance he dies or is captured, another king, chosen by the
herd, immediately assumes the kingship. It is a well-known fact that if
the king of a herd of wild horses is caught, it is not uncommon for his
herd to remain as near him as possible, and in their attempt to release
him are often trapped themselves. The king has no heirs, either apparent
or presumptive, and no right of succession is recognised. Any member of
the herd, provided the workers choose him, may become the king, as every
American school boy is a possible president of the United States. Among many animals there is a perfect social and industrial
organisation in which the division of labour is far better adjusted than
in many human organisations. This, of course, is the result of
gradual growth and evolution just as it is in the human species. This
can easily be proved among animals by their more primitive and savage
habits. Monkeys, for example, in civilised monkey communities, differ
very greatly from those of wilder and less trained districts. They are
constantly changing their habits, becoming more and more civilised by
improving their methods of work and their moral and religious life as
well. In many cases they have ceased to kill members of their own tribe
for small offences for which they used to kill, and the cleanness and
beauty of their home lives seem to increase with the years. It oftentimes happens, however, that powerful ape and baboon colonies
relapse into barbarism, and roam, plunder, rob and murder, like a pack
of uncivilised wolves or hyenas. They seem all at once to forget their
peaceful industries and lose all desire for clean and right living. And
strangely enough, when they once turn bad, they seldom reform. Some
naturalists believe that they are led astray by a wicked king or ruler
who comes into power; the natives believe the evil spirits have suddenly
taken possession of them. There is unquestionably, in the life of many tribal animals, a
definite historical connection between the mother tribe and its
colonies. This relation
extends to the tribes of tribes, and thus there is an international
relationship between the various members of a large number of tribes. These communities share the same likes, dislikes, hatreds, and
aspirations. A missionary friend told of his experience with monkey
folk, and how once, when hunting, his gun was accidentally discharged,
instantly wounding a large semi-tame baboon near his home. He hastened
to help the injured animal, but saw that the relatives had crowded
around and were terrorised, as they thought it was intentional.