Just for
fun, some one cut a piece from the line so that he could not reach the
ground; immediately the ape hunted another piece of cord, tying it to
the end of his line so as to increase its length, and much to his
delight, continued to swing on the line. The distinctive features of animal protection and home government,
especially in the higher groups, may compare favourably with any of the
methods used by civilised man. This is true both of their offensive and
defensive contrivances and for their monarchies and republics. They use
shells, scales, plates of every kind, with innumerable modifications for
various purposes–spines and allied armaments–all shapes and sizes;
poisonous secretions, deadly odours, strong claws and teeth wielded by
strong muscles, and form colonies that are more than a gregarious
association. In most cases, they have communities composed of
individuals living individual lives, yet which act in cases of need as
one unit. ANIMAL
ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS, AND HOUSE BUILDERS

"The heart is hard that is not
pleased

With sight of animals enjoying
life,

Nor feels their happiness augment
his own."

The most popular and perhaps the most interesting department of
natural-history study is that which treats of the manner in which
animals utilise the various materials of the universe for purposes of
protection, for war and defence, for raiment, food, and even the
luxuries of life. Man, by his superior power of adaptation, excels the
lower animals in providing for the comforts of life; but, on the other
hand, in such practical arts as engineering and domestic architecture
man frequently finds himself an amateur in comparison. With all man's
inventions he has not been able to equal some of the remarkable results
produced by some animals. The beaver, for example, shows a more profound
knowledge of hydraulics than man himself. The power possessed by these
craftsmen, not
only in felling trees, but in duly selecting the best places for making
homes and in appropriating substances suitable for their needs, is a
never-ending marvel! Nowhere can we find a greater animal-workman than the beaver. He
belongs to the great burrowing family, and is also extremely graceful in
the water. Long ago he learned the advantages of co-operation, and he
unites with his fellows in building dams of felled trees, which have
been cut up into suitable length for use in damming up water places. These are skilfully placed, and with the aid of mud, control the level
of the water in selected places as efficiently as man could do. As a
social animal, the beaver should be ranked among the first; of course,
the various marmots are extremely sociable, but they ordinarily live
quite independently of each other, except in cases where they chance to
congregate because of favourable conditions. The beavers, on the other
hand, thoroughly understand the benefits of united labour, and work
together for the good of the community. Beavers, if their skill were generally known, would have a great
reputation among their human friends. Recently, at the New York
Zoological Gardens, a visitor was pointing out different animals to his
little son, and when he came to the
beaver pond, referred to two of these dam-builders and tree-cutters,
which were swimming through the water with large sticks in their mouths,
as big rats! Young beavers make their appearance in May, and there are usually
from four to eight to a family. These kittens, as they are called, are
odd looking little fellows, with big heads, large sharp teeth, flat
tails, like little fat paddles, and delicate, soft, mouse-like fur, not
at all coarse like that of their parents. If taken at an early age they
make nice pets and are easily domesticated. In the early days of
American history it was not uncommon to see one running around an Indian
lodge, playing like a child with the little Indians, and frequently
receiving with the papoose nourishment from the mother's breast. Strangely enough, the cry of the young beaver is exactly like that of
the baby child. One of my friends in Michigan recently stopped at an
Indian's house to see a real live baby beaver. "He cry all same as
papoose," remarked the squaw, as she brought the young beaver out of the
house, giving him a little slap to start him crying–and cry he did! The body of a grown beaver is usually about thirty inches long, and
something over eleven inches wide; it weighs about sixty pounds. The
fore-paws are quite small in comparison with the rest of the
body; the hind feet are larger, webbed like a duck's feet, and are the
principal motive power in swimming. The most unique feature of the
animal's body is the famous mud-plastering tail, which is oft-times a
foot long, five inches in width, and an inch in thickness. The colour of
the beaver varies; there are black beavers, white beavers, and brown
beavers. The black are the best known. The beaver is well equipped for defending himself, and for carrying
out his architectural schemes. His jet black tail, which is like a large
paddle, covered with horny scales, he uses in many ways. With it he
turns the body in any desired direction while swimming and diving, and,
in time of danger, employs it as a sound board, or paddle. When alarmed
at night, he dives into the water, and, by means of his tail, splashes
so violently as to give warning to all beavers within a half-mile
distance. The stroke of the tail sounds not unlike a pistol shot. As
soon as a beaver sounds the alarm all others dive underneath the water. His teeth are expressly suited by nature for cutting and chiselling out
trees. The dam is the beaver's masterpiece. In the alder or birch swamps,
where he usually lives, he oft-times builds from six to eight little
dams from knoll to knoll, and in this way makes a pond sufficiently
large for his purposes. The average beaver dam is from twenty to thirty
feet long; but they differ greatly in size. There is one on a branch of
Arnold's River in Canada, where the stream is twenty-one feet wide and
two feet deep, which is especially well built. The dam is seven feet
high, and rises five to six feet above the pool. It is constructed
mainly of alder poles, which are arranged side by side, and their length
is parallel with the direction of the current. To create a pond for
himself and provide against drought is the chief aim of the beaver in
building his dam. Just how these dams are built; who plans the job; who sees that it is
carried out; whether each works under his own impulse or whether they
co-operate; when they begin and how they finish; all these things are
unknown to man. The investigation of such questions is almost
impossible. It is generally believed, however, that beavers work in
gangs under a common "boss" or "overseer," and it is a known fact that
they work only at night. During a dark, rainy night they accomplish
twice as much as on a moonlight night.