Who can be sure that he
doesn't know it? Scientists of the old school desire proof before they
will accept anything as a fact, yet they themselves repeatedly make wild
statements without proper substantiation. It is not unusual for a beaver family to select a home on the bank of
a pond, lake, or stream whose waters are sufficiently deep and abundant
for all their needs. In such a case dams are not needed, and regulation
beaver houses are rarely constructed. Instead, apartment houses are
hollowed out from the
banks. But in the ease of a town-site on shallow, narrow waters, dams
are absolutely necessary to insure sufficient depth to conceal the
beavers, and to prevent obstruction by ice. The entrance to the beaver's
home is almost always under the water. This arrangement safeguards the
home from predatory enemies. During the summer months, beavers are inclined to live alone, except
when a new home occupies their attention; but when autumn comes, the
various families of a neighbourhood meet and remain together through the
following spring. In the latter part of August the busy season begins,
and each and every beaver, old and young, aids in repairing the dam and
dwellings, which have been allowed to fall into decay. The cutting and
felling of trees is the first important work to be done. These interesting "tree-cutters" usually work in pairs, and are
sometimes assisted by younger beavers; thus the family works together in
cutting and felling the trees, but in other forms of labour it seems
that several families work together. If only two are engaged in felling
a tree, they work by turns, and alternately keep guard; this is a
well-known practice of many animals both in work and play. As soon as
the tree begins to bend and crack, they cease cutting and make sure of
their definite
direction of escape, then they continue to gnaw until it begins to fall,
whereupon they plunge into the stream, usually, where they remain for
some time lest the noise of the falling tree attract the attention of
enemies. Their next work is to cut up the tree into sections which they can
remove. If the tree is not too large and has already fallen in the
water, they take it as it is, otherwise it must be cut up and conveyed
to the dam. No professional lumberman better understands how to
transport lumber to a desired place than beavers. They realise the value
of water transportation and thoroughly appreciate that trees can only be
removed downhill. From tame beavers we have learned that they remove
smaller limbs by seizing them with their teeth, throwing the loose end
over their shoulder, and then dragging them to their destination. These water-loving animals rely mainly upon their native element for
the movement of lumber and food, and to aid this they employ engineering
skill that is rivalled only by their feats of tree-cutting and
dam-building. This constructive faculty is shown largely in their
canal-digging. From one small stream to another, or from one lake to
another, they excavate canals from three to four feet in width, with a
water depth of two feet, and occasionally
one hundred and fifty to two hundred feet in length. The amount of
labour they perform is almost unbelievable; every particle of dirt is
carried away between their chin and fore-paws. This earth is sometimes
used in plastering up a nearby dam or repairing their winter home. Small
and tender twigs are transported to the vicinity of their lodges, and
then sunk for winter food. Mr. Morgan has made a close study of these canals, and in speaking of
them he says that when he first saw them, and heard them called canals,
he doubted their artificial origin; but upon examination he found that
they were unquestionably beaver excavations. He considers these
artificial canals, by means of which the beavers carry their wood to
their lodges, the supreme act of intelligence on the part of these wise
animals. Even the dam, remarkable as it is, does not show evidence of
greater skill than that displayed in the making of these canals. No one
who has ever understood the ways of the beaver can believe that he is
not exceedingly intelligent. The banks of these canals soon become
covered with growing plants and moss, and they look not unlike slow
sluggish streams winding through the marshy lands. BEAVER

THE BEAVER
IS THE GREATEST OF ALL ANIMAL ARCHITECTS. HIS SKILL IS EQUALLED ONLY BY
HIS PATIENCE. The beaver huts, or "lodges" as they are usually called, look not
unlike beehives, somewhat broader at
the base, with thick walls and roof, four to six feet in thickness. They
are formed of numbers of poles, twigs, and small branches of trees,
woven together and plastered with mud, in the same way that the dams are
made. Inside the house are circular chambers formed of mud, which have
been smoothed and polished like waxed floors by the feet of the
occupants. Around the outer border of each polished floor is dry grass
used for Mrs. Beaver's nursery, and here the young beavers sleep and
play. From the outside these beaver huts resemble Esquimaux snow-houses,
being almost circular in form, and domed. The walls are quite thick
enough to keep out the cold, but with all the beaver's ingenuity, he is
helpless against trappers. Summer and winter they are hunted, until now
they are fast becoming extinct. How few people seem fully to realise and
care what is being done to wild animals!