They do not seem to know that
it is a crime to take the life of a being unnecessarily. Only human life
is sacred to them! To realize the wonderful work of beavers, and then to
act as we do toward them is unworthy of our civilisation. An interesting cousin of the beaver, the musquash or muskrat, and
called by the Indians the beaver's "little brother," is also a
house-builder and engineer
of no mean abilities. He is at home throughout the greater part of North
America, and, like the beaver, frequents the regions of slowly flowing
streams and large, reed-bordered ponds. Here he mingles in groups of his
own kin, and together they build houses, work and play, dive and swim,
with almost as much skill as their big beaver brothers. The muskrat is a skilled engineer, and delights in tunnelling. His
home consists of a large rounded chamber which is reached by a long
burrow from the side of a stream. From his main living-room are
oftentimes found a number of smaller chambers or galleries, and these
are used to store food in the form of delicate roots and bits of bark. Some of the more ambitious muskrats build large houses on piles of mud
which rise out of the water. These houses are usually made of heaps of
dead grass and weeds which are cemented together with mud and clay; at
other times they contain no mud or clay, and seem to be only piles of
tender roots and swamp grasses to be used for food during the long, cold
winters. From his physical appearance, the muskrat is well prepared to do his
work: he is stoutly built, with a body about a foot in length, not
including the tail; has small eyes, and tiny ears, partly covered with
fur. In the winter, as food gets scarce, he
begins to eat even the walls of his house, and by the time his home is
gone–spring has arrived! A most unusual family of skilled house-builders are the brush-tailed
rat-kangaroos, or Jerboa kangaroos of Australia and Tasmania. They are
no larger than an ordinary rabbit, but they have cousins who are as
large as a man. These rat-kangaroos have most interesting tails, covered
with long hair which forms itself into a crest near the tip. Their homes
are found among small grassy hills, where there are a few trees and
bushes. They scratch out a small hole in the ground, near a tuft of tall
grass, and so bend the grass as to form a complete roof to the house,
which is rather poorly constructed, and whose chief interest lies in the
unusual way the kangaroos have of carrying all the building materials,
like tiny bundles of hay, held compactly in their tails. There is no
other workman among the animals that employs quite this method of
transporting materials. The rat-kangaroos have a dainty little brown cousin that lives in
Africa, and who is occasionally seen jumping around on the ground,
underneath bushes, and near damp springs. He is very small, not over
three inches in length, and is like a miniature kangaroo, except for his
long tail. Like their great cousins–the kangaroos–Mrs. Jerboa often
carries her babies on her back when she goes out to seek food. In the Great Sahara Desert, parched and dry, are found numerous
cities of these little animals. With the exception of a few birds,
reptiles, jackals and hyenas, they are the only inhabitants of this
barren and desolate land. From the Arabs we learn that these little
animals have extensive and intricate burrows, consisting of innumerable
passages tunnelled out in the hard, dry soil. And these tunnels are the
result of combined labour on the part of the entire community. The least
alarm causes them to scuffle away into their underground homes. One of the larger species of Central Asia employs a stratagem that is
remarkable. Like their cousins of Africa, they live in a great
underground city which is a perfect network of burrows which end in a
large central chamber.