If the danger comes too
near, he scampers away. In their ability to take care of their wounded bodies, in their
reading of the weather and in all forms of woodcraft, animals
undoubtedly possess superhuman powers. Even squirrels can prophesy an
unusually long and severe winter and thus make adequate preparations. Some animals act as both barometers and thermometers. It is claimed that
while frogs remain yellow, only fair weather may be
expected, but if their colour changes to brown, ill weather is
coming. There is no limit to the marvellous things animals do. Elephants, for
example, carry leafy palms in their trunks to shade themselves from the
hot sun. The ape or baboon who puts a stone in the open oyster to
prevent it from closing, or lifts stones to crack nuts, or beats his
fellows with sticks, or throws heavy cocoanuts from trees upon his
enemies, or builds a fire in the forest, shows more than a glimmer of
intelligence. In the sly fox that puts out fish heads to bait hawks, or
suddenly plunges in the water and immerses himself to escape hunters, or
holds a branch of a bush over his head and actually runs with it to hide
himself; in the wolverine who catches deer by dropping moss, and
suddenly springing upon them and clawing their eyes out; in the bear,
who, as told in the account of Cook's third voyage, "rolls down pieces
of rock to crush stags; in the rat when he leads his blind brother with
a stick" is actual reasoning. Indeed, there is nothing which man makes
with all his ingenious use of tools and instruments, of which some
suggestion may not be seen in animal creation. Great thinkers of all ages are not wanting who believe that animals
have a portion of that same
reason which is the pride of man. Montaigne admitted that they had both
thought and reason, and Pope believed that even a cat may consider a man
made for his service. Humboldt, Helvitius, Darwin and Smellie claimed
that animals act as a definite result of actual reasoning. Lord Brougham
pertinently observes, "I know not why so much unwillingness should be
shown by some excellent philosophers to allow intelligent faculties and
a share of reason to the lower animals, as if our own superiority was
not quite sufficiently established to leave all jealousy out of view by
the immeasurably higher place which we occupy in the scale of
being."

From the facts enumerated in this book I find that animals are
possessed of love, hate, joy, grief, courage, revenge, pain, pleasure,
want and satisfaction–that all things that go to make up man's life are
also found in them. In the attempt to establish this thesis I have been
led mentally and physically into some of Nature's most fascinating
highways and hedges, where I have had many occasions to wonder and
adore. I will be happy if I have at least added something to the depth
of love and appreciation with which most men look upon the animal
world.