This insures escape in case of enemies. The main tunnel or road
to the home is sometimes fifty feet in length, and no engineer could
devise a more deceptive
approach; it winds up and down like a huge serpent, to the right, and to
the left, and is so annoyingly variable in its sinuous course that even
the natives have great trouble in digging the duckbill out of its
nest. The nest is oval in form, and is well-carpeted with dry weeds and
grass. Here the young reside on soft beds until they are large enough to
care for themselves. There are from one to four in each nest. There are no greater architects in the universe than may be found
among the coral-polypes. These interesting little animals of the deep
have been much misunderstood, and have sometimes had the erroneous
designation of "insect" bestowed upon them. The word "insect" has been
applied in a very loose and general sense in other days; but naturalists
and scientists should see to it that the use of this term be corrected
in reference to these wonderful coral-architects, and that no informed
person refer to them except as animals. Even poets have been guilty of
propagating the most erroneous ideas about the nature and works of these
sea-builders. Montgomery, in his Pelican Island, makes
statements that are shocking to an intelligent thinker, and which no
scientist can excuse on the ground of poetical license. "The poetry
of this
excellent author," says Dana, "is good, but the facts nearly all
errors–if literature allows of such an incongruity." Think of
coral-animals as being referred to as shapeless worms that "writhe and
shrink their tortuous bodies to grotesque dimensions"! These deep-sea
builders manufacture or secrete from their own bodies the coral
substance out of which the great reefs are built. It is a part of their
life work and nature, as a flower produces its own colours and shapes;
it is amusing to know that it has only been about one hundred and fifty
years since it was discovered not to be a plant but an animal! Even Ovid
states the popular belief of the classic period when he speaks of the
coral as a seaweed "which existed in a soft state as long as it remained
in the sea, but had the curious property of becoming hard on exposure to
the air."

These strange coral-producing animals of the deep demand two
especially important conditions only under which they will thrive:
namely, a certain depth of water and a certain temperature. Thus it is
seen that the warmth of the sea determines the distribution of the
corals; the geography of these animals is defined by degrees of
temperature. Only in equatorial seas may reef-building corals be found;
and if we select the "Equator as a natural centre of the globe, and
measure off a band
of 1800 miles in breadth on each side of that line," we will find that
it will include the chief coral regions of the earth. The work of the corals is most interesting. Small as are these tiny
workmen, each and every one does his bit and, speck by speck, adds his
minute contribution to the growing mass of coral until entire islands
are surrounded by extensive reefs. Tahiti, for example, is surrounded by
a barrier reef which is really an immense wall. The large barrier reef
on the northeast coast of Australia extends in a continuous line for
1,000 miles, and varies from 10 to 90 miles in breadth. Some reefs are
mere fringes which simply skirt the coast lands, and seem to be mere
extensions of the beach. Still another variety of reef is known as the
"atoll" or "lagoon" reef. This latter form is seen in circular rings of
coral of various breadths which enclose a body of still water–the
lagoon. There are many of these coral islands in the Indian and Pacific
Oceans. Keeling or Cocos Atoll, of the Indian Ocean, is 9Â½ miles in its
greatest width; Bow Island is 30 miles in length, and 6 miles wide;
while in the Maldive Archipelago one island measures 88 geographical
miles in length, and in some places is 20 miles wide. When one beholds a
large coral ring, covered with rich soil and tropical vegetation, and
"protecting a
quiet lake-haven from the restless ocean without, it is little to be
wondered at that the earlier voyagers recorded their surprise that the
apparently insignificant architects of such an erection are able to
withstand the force of the waves and to preserve their works among the
continual attacks of the sea." As Pyrard de Laval truly said, "It is a
marvel to see each of these atollons surrounded on all sides by a great
bank of stone–walls such as no human hands could build on the space of
earth allotted to them.... Being in the middle of an atollon, you see
all around you this great stone bank, which surrounds and protects the
island from the waves; but it is a formidable attempt, even for the
boldest, to approach the bank and watch the waves roll in, and break
with fury upon the shore."

As to the explanation of the modes of formation of these coral-reefs,
the scientists have long been propounding theories which are sometimes
amusing. Strangely enough they have nearly all explained that
coral-polypes aggregate themselves in the forms of atolls and
barrier-reefs by a mysterious "instinct," mediocrity's only term for
screening its ignorance, and which is also given as the cause for their
secreting lime. Flinders says that they form a great protecting reef in
order that they may be protected by its shelter, and that the leeward
aspect
of the reef forms a nursery for their infant colonies. Thus we see that these same scientists are accrediting these little
architects with the possession of a great intelligence, and they are
thought to co-operate together in a manner expressive of the greatest
degree of efficiency and brotherly feeling. Each of these scientists
gives a theory that leaves untouched the essential question of the
causes for coral-reefs assuming their various shapes; and it is
reasonable to believe that they work according to a divine wisdom and
plan, and that mankind does not yet understand their strange ways, which
give us a higher conception of the universe than that held by the
ancients. Science has come to the point where it must recognise the
perfect unity of all life, and that our fellow-architects, engineers,
and house-builders in the animal world also fill an important place in
Nature's great scheme. XI

FOOD
CONSERVERS

"He prayeth well who loveth
well

Both man and bird and
beast. He prayeth best who loveth
best

All things both great and
small;

For the dear God who loveth
us,

He made and loveth
all."

–Coleridge. It can almost be said that there is no industry or profession of the
human world that is not carried on with equal skill in the animal world. This is especially true of merchandising and store-keeping; animals,
however, have different methods of merchandising than men, although
these methods are none the less real. They give and take instead of buy
and sell and have co-operative shops which they operate with great
success. They unite for a desired end, and demonstrate their ability to
work together in a common enterprise in a way that might teach man a
good lesson. Food and shelter are the first needs of animals. In
order to obtain these, they group themselves into foraging parties in
the most ingenious manner. Like mankind, they sometimes co-operate for
dishonest ends; they form "trusts" and organise into gangs for purposes
of mutual aid. Deer, monkeys, rabbits, foxes, and numerous others conduct their
dining-rooms on a co-operative principle. Some watch and wait while
others dine. The same is true where they go to watering places to drink
and bathe. Perhaps the most unique and clever food conserver is the American
polecat. He not only provides for himself, but prepares a larder for his
young, so that they will have plenty of food.