and Mrs. Hamster and the children have no need to go forth in the cold and wet
weather to seek food–they can remain at home perfectly protected and
well-fed. They are very liberal, and in case of need or poverty, will
always share their food with their neighbours. I once found the nest of a harvest mouse, which was woven of plaited
blades of straw of the oats and wheat. It was perfectly round, with the
aperture so ingeniously closed that I could scarcely tell to what part
of the nest it belonged. It was as round as a marble and would actually
roll when placed on a table, although within its walls were six tiny
mice, naked and blind. As they increased in size day by day, the elastic
wall of their small home expanded, and thus served their need until such
time as they were old enough to live independent of this specially
provided shelter. There is a larger animal, known as a "rat-hare" or the harvest rat,
which gathers piles of hay for winter use, sometimes to the height of
six or eight feet in diameter. They begin harvesting in the early part
of August, and after having cut the grass, they carefully spread it out
to dry before placing it in their barns. These barns are usually located
in holes or crevices of mountains. They are found in immense numbers in
the Altai Mountains. The California woodrat is not only a food hoarder but a notable thief
and robber. A nest was found that was a veritable tool chest and pawn
shop! It contained fourteen knives, three forks, six small spoons, one
large soup spoon, twenty-seven large nails, hundreds of small tacks, two
butcher knives,
three pairs of eye-glasses, one purse, one string of beads, one rubber
ball, two small cakes of soap, one string of red peppers, several boxes
of matches, with numerous small buttons, needles, and pins. Apparently
these woodrats are as ambitious for unnecessary and useless possessions
as is man himself. Their big storeroom did, however, contain a larder in
which they had some of their favourite food, such as seeds and nuts. Some animals have learned not only to acquire, but also to defend and
protect, all their property. We see in the human world how strong is the
impulse to collect, and children will invariably collect anything from
pebbles to peach-pits, if they see other children doing the same
thing. Most animals that do not hoard are those that forage for food, or
fish, and rarely have permanent homes. The orang-outangs, for example,
are regular gipsies, and go from place to place wherever food is
plentiful.