The chief is always armed with a
club, and is thoroughly skilled in the use of it. It sometimes happens
that an elephant will come to the same tree to seek food that apes
frequent, and although they have no enmity towards each other, they like
the same kind of food. As soon as the ape sees the elephant reaching his
trunk among the branches, he immediately slips near the elephant, and
when an opportunity presents itself, he whacks him over the trunk with
his club! The infuriated elephant runs away in terror! A story is told of a party of foraging apes who went into a cornfield
with the purpose of robbing it, and discovered two men. They immediately
rushed upon them and attempted to poke their eyes out with sticks and
would have succeeded but for the intervention of two other men who
chanced to be near. The extreme cleverness of apes in applying their
reason and judgment is shown in Vosmaer's account of the female
orang-outang, who tried to open the padlock of her chain with a small
stick. She had seen her master open it with a key,
and she exactly imitated the motion of his hands in the attempt. Man shows a disposition to deny animals all traits and
characteristics which are similar to his own. This reminds us of a
remark that Cardinal Newman once made that men know less of animals than
they do of angels. Why should we show such foolish pride and delusion,
and try to baffle one of God's great facts? When men attempt to
extinguish the idea of animal intelligence and sentiment by referring to
it as instinct, we are reminded of the desert ostrich, which buries its
head in the sand and thinks it cannot be seen. We should proudly
acknowledge the wonderful human-like methods of these food conservers of
the animal world, and recognise in all this a guiding Providence who
provides for and protects all his creatures, be they great or
small. XII

TOURISTS
AND SIGHT-SEERS

"Every night we must look, lest
the down slope

Between us and the woods turn
suddenly

To a grey onrush full of small green
candles,

The charging pack with eyes flaming
for flesh. And well for us then if there's no
more mist

Than the white panting of the
wolfish hunger."

The desire to travel and see the great world is by no means peculiar
to the human race. It is found among animals to such a degree that
groups of them will often leave their homes in one country and journey
to another. These strange wanderlust habits are noticed even by the
casual observer, and no special insight is required to see that these
wise creatures have their annual tours excellently arranged and marked
out. Their route is possibly as definitely arranged before starting, as
is the route of a human traveller. They have their selected eating
places arranged, know every danger spot and the enemies they are likely
to encounter. The members of these co-operative tours take life tickets, and each
tour lasts about one year. One of the most unusual instances of such
co-operation is that of the lemmings of the Scandinavian countries. These are animals of the mouse tribe, which live in the mountainous
districts. They live upon roots and grasses. They breed very rapidly. At
certain times they go from the centre of Norway to the east and west,
crossing valley, hill, and river in great masses. Many are destroyed by
birds and beasts of prey, but finally the survivors reach the Atlantic
on the Gulf of Bothnia and, for some strange unknown reason, plunge in
and die. Only enough remain from one season to another to propagate the
species. It is an immense co-operative suicide society. Rivers and valleys are sometimes effectual barriers. On the plains of
the Amazon great numbers of animals are found on one side of the river
only; these have not been able to cross to the other. On the north side
of the Rio Negro are two varieties of monkeys, the brachiurus
conxion and the jacchus bicolor, which are unknown on the
south side. Of course, water-loving animals, such as seals, whales, and
porpoises are at home in the water and can swim for days without
stopping. Quite a few animals can swim for a short distance, but
comparatively
few for long distances. In the early days in North America it was not
uncommon for buffalo to swim across the Mississippi River. Rats and
squirrels often migrate in great numbers. It oftentimes happens that
Arctic animals travel from one place to another on floating ice. In the
South American waters it is a common sight to see floating islands
covered with plants and trees upon which there are live animals; and
while these animals are likely to perish, they are oftentimes carried
safely to land. Eagles have often been instrumental in bringing new
species of animals to islands where they had previously been unknown,
their purpose being to provide food for their own young. Some of these
animals would escape and henceforth become citizens of their new
habitation. An interesting division of migrants is that of the casual travellers,
like the men and women who always remain at home except when special
business calls them away. Sudden climatic changes, or the scarcity of
food, often cause stay-at-home animals to make tours into new
territories. As a good instance, I might cite the case of three wolves,
which I saw entering Jackson Park in Chicago, during very severe weather
when Lake Michigan was frozen over. The morning papers stated that
because of forest fires in Michigan, and the extreme cold,
which not only made food scarce for the wild animals of Michigan, but
froze the Lake, many of them had come across the ice into the great
Chicago parks seeking food and shelter. The subject of animal travel is full of interesting and difficult
problems, and not the least interesting nor the least difficult is the
question of just how they find their way to and from various places. Many naturalists tell us that these animals are led by inherited
instinct along the migration lines followed by their forefathers. But
even if this were true, what made them originally follow such a
course? Wild horses when travelling always have a leader as well as several
sentinels for each herd. By some unknown code this leader makes known
his wishes and directs the movements of the herd. No human army could
have greater order or more perfect obedience to commands; and under him
there is absolute unity by means of which the carnivorous animals, such
as the wolf, the jaguar, and the puma, are repelled. Wild deer
invariably have a leader, and while we do not know how he obtains his
position, nor how he directs his followers, we do know he is highly
successful in his efforts. No act in the animal world bespeaks more intelligence than that of
placing sentinels, especially
during a journey. Horses show striking skill and ingenuity in the
choosing and placing of their sentinels. Any one who has been fortunate
enough to have seen them travelling in the forests of South America,
where the wild horses are gregarious, and travel in herds of five
hundred to a thousand, has noticed that sentinels are always stationed
around the herd. These animals are not well prepared for fighting, and
experience has taught them that their greatest safety is in flight, and
so, when they graze or sleep, sentinels are always on the look-out for
enemies. If a man approaches, the sentinel at first walks toward him, as
if to make sure what the enemy is, and what he desires, if the man goes
nearer to the herd, the sentinel neighs in a most peculiar tone. Immediately the herd is aroused, and gallops away, not in confusion, but
perfect order, as though its members were human soldiers. The same is true of the white-legged peccaries, so plentiful in
Guiana. They congregate by the thousands, choose a leader whose position
is always at the front, and travel for hundreds of miles through the
great forests.