If they come to a river, the leader halts, as if to make
sure that all is well for crossing, then he plunges into the water and
is followed by his immense army. The sureness of the leader would
suggest that he has been over the same
route many times before–perhaps this is why he has been chosen! If an
enemy appears, or any form of danger is approached, they carry on an
immense amount of chattering and proceed only when they have talked it
out. Any hunter that should be foolish enough to attack them, unless he
were already up a tree, would be torn to pieces with their terrible
teeth and tusks. They are as bloodthirsty as the wild boars of the Black
Forest of Germany, and will sometimes actually tear down a tree up which
an enemy has escaped, that they may kill him. The African apes have an interesting way of sending their sentinel to
the top of an adjacent rock or tree, that he may look over the
surrounding valleys and plantations before they go to plunder a garden
or field. If he sees any danger, he utters a loud shriek, and the entire
troop immediately runs away. The monkeys of Brazil post a guard while
they sleep; the same is true of the chamois and other species of wild
antelope. A few years ago, many of the sheep in the northern part of Wales had
become quite wild, and they usually grazed in parties of twelve to
twenty, always having a sentinel so stationed as to command a prominent
view of the surrounding territory. If any animal or person came near, he
would give a
peculiar hiss or whistle, repeating it two or three times, at which the
whole herd would scamper away to places of safety. One of the most striking facts about migration is its never-failing
regularity and success. Most animals migrate at the recurrence of the
breeding season. Of these, the great sea-turtle, which seeks the shallow
water and deep sandy hills when ready to lay her eggs, is well known. Notwithstanding the great risks that practically all travelling animals
assume, they are successful as a whole in their travels, and many return
to bear testimony to a successful trip even across continents and
sometimes the ocean. They migrate, for a variety of reasons. When it is
not for a more desirable climate, nor more food, nor even better
breeding grounds, we must either believe it is because of the natural
desire to travel, or frankly admit that we do not understand it. The Icelandic mice have probably the most curious methods of
travelling of all migratory animals. Dr. Henderson, an authority on
Iceland, not only verifies the fact himself, but gives the names of many
prominent investigators who have seen the mice crossing small rivers and
streams on thin pieces of dry board, dragging them to the water,
launching them, and then going aboard their little
rafts. They then turn their heads to the centre, and their tails, which
hang in the water, are used as paddles and rudders until they reach the
destined shore. Among travellers none are more famed than the camels. In their sphere
and use they are supreme, and Nature has prepared them especially for
travelling on the dry, hot, and barren deserts. They are truly the
"ships of the desert" for they travel on a sea of sand, and their
pad-like feet, so poorly adapted for travel on moist soil, is admirably
suited to the desert sands. They are capable of travelling many days
without food or water, and are used extensively in the desert regions of
the East not only as beasts of burden but for their milk, which is an
important article of diet in those countries where the camel is at
home. Animals that do not migrate, especially those living in cold
climates, change their clothing at regular intervals. Their hair or fur
increases in thickness in winter. If we compare the Indian and African
elephants of to-day, whose delicate thin hair is scarcely noticeable,
with the great extinct mammoth, which had an enormous amount of woolly
fur, we readily see the great difference in their clothing. Yet these
animals are members of the same great family. The same difference may be
noted
with horses: the Arabian horse, for example, has short, glistening fur,
while those of Iceland and Norway have very thick fur; the same is true
of Northern and Southern sheep. Animals which live in temperate regions,
put on much thicker coats in winter, and shed them as summer
approaches. BLACK BEAR

American Museum of Natural History, New York

THE BLACK
BEAR IS NOT ONE OF THE GREAT MIGRATING ANIMALS. THE THICKNESS OF HIS
COAT MUST THEREFORE CHANGE WITH THE SEASONS. RABBITS

American Museum of Natural History, New York

RABBITS
SEEM TO HAVE A WELL-DEVISED SYSTEM IN THEIR ROAD-BUILDING, RUNNING THEIR
PATHS IN AND OUT OF UNDERBRUSH IN A TRULY INGENIOUS MANNER. The love of their original homes is one of the most striking features
of certain animal travellers. The fierce struggle for existence and the
territory required for an animal's home largely determine the amount of
effort they make to seize and hold certain possessions. A pair of
wildcats, for example, require a comparatively small hunting ground. But
this they will defend against invasion even to the point of death. There
are many more evidences showing the animals' love of home, and that they
also know the meaning of home-sickness. Not a few animals have learned definitely to lay out and obtain
recognition for the boundaries of their respective ranging-grounds. This
is amply proven by their respect and recognition of rights of way. Animals of certain farms seem to know the exact boundaries of their
grazing lands and pastures, and to teach this knowledge to their young. In addition they often police their lands and pastures against
intruders. Woe unto any traveller
found on the wrong highway! It is not uncommon for the transgressor to
be pushed from a right of way to the rocks below. More than once a
court's decision regarding disputable territory has been based on the
sheep's recognition of boundary; those sheep slain in battle or
otherwise injured while trying to invade the questionable territory have
been paid for by the owner of the transgressing sheep. It is easy to understand how sheep can recognise their rights of way,
but somewhat difficult to account for their knowledge of boundaries. Sheep and goats have for ages been the greatest mountain-path and
road-makers. Whether or not they have engineers, we are not sure, but
they seem to select the shortest, easiest, and best route across the
trackless hills, and never seem to change the way. In these localities,
the sheep are almost in a primitive condition, and "not the least
interesting feature of their conduct in this relapse to the wild life is
that, in spite of the highly artificial condition in which they live
to-day, they retain the primitive instincts of their race."

That this "peremptory and path-keeping" instinct is shown by the
habits of the musk-ox, is clear. He is as much akin to the sheep as to
cattle, and in habits more like those of the great prehistoric
sheep as we imagine these to have been. The musk-ox naturally assembles
in large flocks, and is migratory, just as the domesticated flocks of
Spain are, and those of Thrace and the Caspian steppe. These flocks
always return from the barren lands in the far north by the same road,
and cross rivers by the same fords. Nothing but too persistent slaughter
at these points by the enemies who beset them, induces them to desert
their ancient highways. Pictures and anecdotes of the migrations of
these animals, and of the bison in former days, represent them as moving
on a broad front across the prairie or tundra. The examples of all
moving multitudes suggest that this was not their usual formation on the
march, and their roads prove that they moved on a narrow front or in
file. On the North American prairie, though the bison are extinct, their
great roads still remain as evidence of their former habits. These
trails are paths worn on the prairie, nearly all running due north and
south (the line of the old migration of the herds), like gigantic rabbit
tracks. They are hard, the grass on them is green and short, and, if
followed, they generally lead near water, to which a diverging track
runs from the highway. How interesting must have been the life on this great animal highway,
before the Indian made the
deadly arrow to destroy these nature-loving travellers! There is no
doubt but that, in their own way, these animals felt all the emotions
known to a human traveller; that they enjoyed the flowery road, rested
and played when weary, looked forward with joy to their favourite
watering and bathing places, and recognised old watering places that
they had visited for years. The great roads and highways made by graminivorous animals, from
those which the hippopotamus cuts through the mammoth canes and reeds of
the African streams, to the smaller rabbit highways of England and
America, all tell their own story of how these animals live and travel. The principal roads of rabbits over hills are as permanent as sheep and
buffalo roads. These roads, however, should not be confused with the
little trails that lead to their play and feeding grounds. My friend and fellow-naturalist, Ralph Stuart Murray, in writing to
me from Quebec, says: "In speaking of animal road builders, I might say
that the rabbit or hare of the north woods deserves much attention, for
greatly interesting are his highways. The life of the north woods brings
one constantly in touch with these roads, which, after generations upon
generations of constant use, are worn deep and smooth into the moose
grass and muskeg
through which they run. At places, several distinct paths intersect, and
it is curious to note that while these roads wind in and out underneath
the low hanging evergreens, the 'cross-roads' will invariably be located
in a clear open space, often on the top of some small hillock. "The great age of these roads is very evident when compared with the
newer, shallower paths of more recent years. So deep are the old ones,
in fact, that the quiet watcher in the woods will occasionally see two
large, upright ears–unmistakably those of a rabbit, seemingly sticking
out of a hole in the ground–yet moving at a rapid pace, and all the
while no rabbit in view. For all the world these vertical ears belonging
to an unseen owner resemble in use and appearance the periscope of a
submarine–the difference being that the rabbit uses his 'periscopes' for
hearing, in order to locate and avoid his foe, the submarine its
periscope to locate and attack its enemy."

The sheep terraces, which are so common on the sides of hills, though
made by sheep, are not roads, but feeding grounds. Sheep, when walking
on a hillside, invariably graze on the upper side, as they cannot reach
the lower grass. Therefore they walk backwards and forwards on the
slope, just as a reaping machine is driven over a hillside wheat-field. As the sheep takes a "neck's length" each time, the little ridges or
roads correspond exactly with the measurements of the sheep's neck. There are as many kinds of roads and terminals in the animal world as
there are in the human, and lest our pride make us forget, we should
remember that even the Panama Canal is dug according to the plan of a
crawfish's canal, such as may be seen near any muddy stream. It is
strange that no animal has learned to build elevated roads, though
animals that live in trees, like flying squirrels, monkeys, and flying
foxes, are very skilled in going from one tree to another. They have
regular aerial highways, and some of the tree frogs are veritable
wonders in the accuracy of their leaps from tree to tree. Even more
skilled than these are the agamid lizards of India, whose chief means of
travel is a folding parachute, which at a moment's notice can be erected
and carry to another tree its lucky possessor. In Borneo is an aviator
tree-snake which is able to so spread his ribs and inflate his body that
he can actually sail from branch to branch in the tree-tops. There are night travellers as well as day travellers; in fact, there
are more animals that roam around in a great forest at night than in the
daytime. They sleep during the day, when the day
animals are roaming about, and go forth to roam when it is night. It is
then they seek for prey, and are much feared by day animals.