They see
well in the dark, and travel so lightly that their footsteps cannot be
heard. On the Island of Java are found a family of strange, dwarfish little
beings, which are called by the natives malmags, or hobgoblins. And they
are well named, for they look like creatures of a distorted imagination
more than real, living animals. They travel only at night, and so
superstitious are the natives of their evil influence that if one of
these uncanny little creatures appears near their rice fields, the
plantation is immediately abandoned. However, these small creatures are
no larger than squirrels, and are perfectly harmless. They are very rare
even in their native lands–the Oriental Archipelago and the Philippine
Islands. They rear their young in the hollow roots of bamboo trees, and
to disturb their nests means to incur the evil of all the land. Night animals do not go forth to travel and seek prey until the night
is far advanced, and their prey is soundly sleeping. They seem to know
the exact time of the night, as if they had watches or clocks, and they
usually go forth to hunt about midnight and return to their homes about
four o'clock. Only in
cases of extreme hunger do they vary from this rule. How marvellously skilled are they in finding their way! They pass
through a crowded forest as though it were daytime, and strangely enough
know just how to return to their lairs. This special sense or gift is
not possessed by man; he must have marks and signs to return to a
definite place. These night-travellers number among their lot bats, flying squirrels,
leopards, and prowling snakes. Bats are not only the most interesting of the night-travellers, but
by far the most curious and wonderful animals in the world. They are
hideously ugly, reminding one more of a miniature, closed-up umbrella
than an animal! They are coarse, awkward, when not in flight, and
repellent; yet they have such highly developed senses that they have no
rivals in the animal world. They excel most birds in flight, are able to
make long nightly journeys, in which they use their wings not only for
flight, but as air-bags in which they catch all kinds of flying insects. Their sense of touch as we know it is really a combination of touch,
sight, and hearing. A bat is a paradox par excellence! Nature seems to have started to
make a little bear or fox, and suddenly forgot how and changed it into a
winged
freak, with tail, claws, fur, sharp teeth, small ears that stand up, and
tiny, half-buried eyes. Its queer angular-edged wings look like an
umbrella, with the cloth stretched over steel ribs; but in the case of
the bat, this framework is made of delicate bones which are covered with
a thin skin. The skin contains numerous little sense organs dotted over
its surface, which give the bat his strange power. Bats look more like mice than they do like birds, and they are
sometimes called flittermice. But they are mammals, and the young are
fed with milk by the mother, just as a cow feeds her calf. There is no
danger that a bat will ever fly against you in the dark; for they can
avoid all mishap even when their eyes are put out. They have special
sense organs that tell them when they are nearing an object, and can fly
at headlong speed with the accuracy of a rifle bullet directly into a
small opening. This power is all due to the mysterious sense located in
their wings and ears, which causes even man to consider his senses weak
in comparison. Bats are sociable creatures and huddle together and sleep in vast
numbers during the day, but when night comes on they come forth for
their nocturnal travels and sport by the millions. I have seen them
leaving caves just at dusk in such numbers as to look like one immense
volume of smoke, twenty to
thirty feet wide, and lasting for more than five minutes. Mrs. Bat often
takes her babies with her on these nightly travels. I found one with two
young clinging to her breast.