Nevertheless, they have an important part
to play in the scheme of things. One of the most noted of these scavengers is the jackal–the Bohemian
of the desert–whose territory extends from the Gulf of Persia to the
Strait of Gibraltar. He is equally at home in Arabia, Persia, Babylonia,
Syria, Egypt, and the entire North Coast of Africa, and no country from
Barbary
to the Cape of Good Hope is ever out of reach of his ghostly and uncouth
howls. He travels only by night, and very rapidly. When suffering with extreme hunger, he will attack man, but this he
will do only in very rare cases. As he lives entirely upon dead animals,
he is more of a thief and glutton than a robber and murderer. He depends
mostly upon flight and darkness for his protection, and rarely ventures
a direct attack. With all his unlikable habits he is truly valuable as
an agent of public salubrity, and an important officer of the desert
"commission of highways."

These public scavengers, while especially fond of carcasses and
putrid flesh, are not averse to a little fresh meat occasionally. The
jackal is truly the follower or purveyor for the lion, and oftentimes
they work together. Jackals will gather in large numbers near a lion's
den and howl and scream until the lions come forth to disperse them. As
soon as a lion appears they stop their noise, but when he is out of
sight, they immediately begin again. This is done because game is near,
and the wise jackals wish the lion to kill the game. When this is done,
and the lions have eaten all except the bones, the jackals have their
small feast of scraps. These weird night prowlers have ways all their own,
as any one who has spent a night in a tropical desert can attest. Imagine yourself on the Syrian plains between Bagdad and Damascus; a
small white tent, and a starry sky: the silence is appalling, and you
are just about to have your first sleep in the desert. Away, away from
the distance comes a mournful, ghostly cry. Suddenly it ceases and like
myriads of echoes it is repeated in hideous intensity–a babel of cries
weird beyond description–so fierce and screeching as to be almost
blood-curdling. It seems to come from all directions and distance out of
measure! Vibrating over the sands and through the rocks, filling the
immense void, crying out as it were for the sphinx, a veritable de
profundis of the wastes. The vultures, who hold the fort during the
day have given way to the night shift, the jackals. These come from all
directions; from the caves in the earth, from among the rocks, from
here, there, and from everywhere to take up their hygienic services
where it has been left off by the day scavengers. If you were near an oasis in the desert at the close of day, you
would suddenly hear from the hot, barren sands a deep and peculiar
sound. It swells and grows as an approaching wind, growing louder and
louder as it comes nearer. Suddenly by the light of the camp fire, you
see myriads of horrid
green eyes, like ghost torches in a graveyard, and hear gnashing teeth,
greedy in anticipation of the garbage you have thrown away. These hyena hordes are frightfully ugly, but rarely dangerous to man. They visit every oasis settlement in immense numbers, howling, yelping,
and fighting for any bit of offal they may find. Not a particle of
garbage remains.