New York, April, 1918. THE
HUMAN SIDE OF ANIMALS

ANIMALS
THAT PRACTISE CAMOUFLAGE

"She was a gordian shape of
dazzling line,

Vermilion-spotted, golden, green and
blue;

Striped like a zebra, freckled like
a pard,

Eyed like a peacock, and all crimson
barr'd,

And full of silver moons, that, as
she breathed,

Dissolved, or brighter shone, or
interwreathed

Their lustres with the glorious
tapestries...."

–Keats (on Lamia, the
snake). The art of concealment or camouflage is one of the newest and most
highly developed techniques of modern warfare. But the animals have been
masters of it for ages. The lives of most of them are passed in constant
conflict. Those which have enemies from which they cannot escape by
rapidity of motion must be able to hide or disguise themselves. Those
which hunt for a living must be able to approach their prey without
unnecessary noise
or attention to themselves. It is very remarkable how Nature helps the
wild creatures to disguise themselves by colouring them with various
shades and tints best calculated to enable them to escape enemies or to
entrap prey. The animals of each locality are usually coloured according to their
habitat, but good reasons make some exceptions advisable. Many of the
most striking examples of this protective resemblance among animals are
the result of their very intimate association with the surrounding flora
and natural scenery. There is no part of a tree, including flowers,
fruits, bark and roots, that is not in some way copied and imitated by
these clever creatures. Often this imitation is astonishing in its
faithfulness of detail. Bunches of cocoanuts are portrayed by sleeping
monkeys, while even the leaves are copied by certain tree-toads, and
many flowers are represented by monkeys and lizards. The winding roots
of huge trees are copied by snakes that twist themselves together at the
foot of the tree. In the art of camouflage–an art which affects the form, colour, and
attitude of animals–Nature has worked along two different roads. One is
easy and direct, the other circuitous and difficult. The easy way is
that of protective resemblance pure and simple, where the animal's
colour, form, or attitude becomes like that of its habitat. In which
case the animal becomes one with its environment and thus is enabled to
go about unnoticed by its enemies or by its prey. The other way is that
of bluff, and it includes all inoffensive animals which are capable of
assuming attitudes and colours that terrify and frighten. The colours in
some cases are really of warning pattern, yet they cannot be considered
mimetic unless they are thought to resemble the patterns of some extinct
model of which we know nothing; and since they are not found in
present-day animals with unpleasant qualities, they are not, strictly
speaking, warning colours. Desert animals are in most cases desert-coloured. The lion, for
example, is almost invisible when crouched among the rocks and streams
of the African wastes. Antelopes are tinted like the landscape over
which they roam, while the camel seems actually to blend with the desert
sands. The kangaroos of Australia at a little distance seem to disappear
into the soil of their respective localities, while
the cat of the Pampas accurately reflects his surroundings in his
fur. The tiger is made so invisible by his wonderful colour that, when he
crouches in the bright sunlight amid the tall brown grass, it is almost
impossible to see him. But the zebra and the giraffe are the kings of
all camouflagers! So deceptive are the large blotch-spots of the giraffe
and his weird head and horns, like scrubby limbs, that his concealment
is perfect. Even the cleverest natives often mistake a herd of giraffes
for a clump of trees. The camouflage of zebras is equally deceptive. Drummond says that he once found himself in a forest, looking at what he
thought to be a lone zebra, when to his astonishment he suddenly
realised that he was facing an entire herd which were invisible until
they became frightened and moved. Evidently the zebra is well aware that
the black-and-white stripes of his coat take away the sense of solid
body, and that the two colours blend into a light gray, and thus at
close range the effect is that of rays of sunlight passing through
bushes. The arctic animals, with few exceptions, are remarkable for imitating
their surroundings; their colour of white blends perfectly with the snow
around them. The polar bear is the only white bear, and his home is
always among the snow and ice. The arctic fox, alpine hare, and ermine change to white in winter only,
because during the other seasons white would be too conspicuous. The
American arctic hare is always white because he always lives among the
white expanses of the Far North. Both foxes and stoats are carnivorous
and feed upon ptarmigan and hares, and they must be protectively
coloured that they may catch their prey. On the other hand, Nature aids
the prey by providing them with colours that enable them to escape the
attention of their enemies. The young of many of the arctic animals are covered with fluffy white
hair, so that while they are too young to swim they may lie with safety
upon the ground and escape the attention of polar bears; but in the
antarctic regions, where there are few enemies to fear, the young seals,
for instance, are exactly the colour of their parents. The most remarkable exception of mimetic colouring among the animals
of the polar regions is the sable. Throughout the long Siberian winter
he retains his coat of rich brown fur. His habits, however, are such
that he does not need the protection of colour, for he is so active that
he can easily catch wild birds, and he can also subsist upon wild
berries. The woodchuck of North America retains his coat of dark-brown
fur throughout the long,
cold winters. The matter of his obtaining food, however, is easy, for he
lives in burrows, near streams where he can catch fish and small animals
that live in or near the water. A number of the old-school naturalists believed that when an animal's
colouring assumed the snowy-white coat of its arctic surroundings, this
was due to the natural tendency on the part of its hair and fur to
assume the colourings and tints of their habitat. This, however, is
absolutely false; and no better proof of it can be offered than the case
of the arctic musk-ox, who is far more polar in his haunts than even the
polar bear, and is therefore exposed to the whitening influence of the
wintry regions more than the bear. Yet he never turns white, but is
always brown. The only enemy of this northern-dweller is the arctic
wolf, and against this enemy he is protected by powerful hoofs, thick
hair, and immense horns. He does not need to conceal himself, and
therefore does not simulate the colour of his surroundings. MOTHER BISON

American Museum of Natural History, New York

THE
INDIANS CLAIM THAT THE MOTHER BISON FORCED HER CALF TO ROLL OFTEN IN A
PUDDLE OF RED CLAY, SO THAT IT MIGHT BE INDISTINGUISHABLE AGAINST ITS
RED CLAY BACKGROUND. MOTHER BISON

American Museum of Natural History, New York

THE ZEBRA
IS ONE OF THE CLEVEREST OF CAMOUFLAGERS. THE BLACK-AND-WHITE STRIPES OF
HIS BODY GIVE THE EFFECT OF SUNLIGHT PASSING THROUGH BUSHES.