He moves with great
rapidity, is always on the alert, and stops at nothing from mountains to
a flowing river. When he attacks an enemy he makes short work of
him. Bands of these hogs are led by a chief, who is the swiftest and
fiercest of the herd. This aggressive leader is followed by successive
lines of males, behind which come the strong females, while the rear
is brought up by the old, the sick, and the young. In marching, they
have the discipline of a trained army, and turn neither to the right nor
to the left but go straight ahead. If the leader, for any cause, decides
to change his route, the fact is quickly made known in some way to his
followers, and the turn is made at a direct angle, with the accuracy of
a surveyor, and the peccaries go forward again directly toward their new
destination. This is another evidence of a special sense unknown to
man. But whenever a stop is made, or wherever they go, they do their work
as scavengers. Fallen fruits, dead animals, insects, snakes, and worms
are their prey. Thus they are valuable forest sweepers. Strangely enough, in the animal world, as in the human, the lower
professions are filled with those of less mentality than the higher, and
as a result we find scavengers are nearest allied to criminals. The idea
of one creature killing and eating another seems terrible. Yet they do,
and most often do human beings commit the same crime. Cannibalism among
wild animals is a common occurrence. The demand for food usually causes
one animal to kill and devour another. But in captivity there are other
causes for cannibalism: fear and
excitement will oftentimes cause a mother to destroy her offspring. It is a case of dog eat dog! Badgers often kill and devour their
young. Wolves, in cases of extreme hunger, will eat their puppies; and
Arctic travellers, when food for their dogs is scarce, have to guard
constantly against the stronger eating the weaker. I once caught a
mother field mouse with her two young and placed them in a cage; the
next day the young had strangely disappeared, but I am not sure that the
mother had eaten them. Hogs, cats, and rabbits will sometimes kill and
eat their young even when food is plentiful. Crocodiles show an
occasional cannibalistic tendency, while water-shrews are very
pugnacious and oftentimes fight until one is killed. The victorious one
eats his enemy! Thus it appears that Nature does not entirely disapprove
of cannibalism, or she would not allow so many of her creatures to
practise it. Theft is a common vice among these various criminals. Monkeys and
baboons form regular bands to rob and plunder. They have a chief who
sees that a sentinel is posted at each dangerous post. The plunderers
then line up in a long row, and the leader gets the booty and passes it
along the line until it reaches the last of the band–the receiver. He
deposits it in a safe place. If the sentry sounds an
alarm, they all flee away, each with as much booty as he can grab.