If
the enemy presses too close, all booty is thrown away. Passion, especially of love, causes much crime among animals as it
does among men. Jealousy burns fiercely even in the breast of a beast. It is a common heritage of the fiercest lion and the gentle gazelle
alike, and is capable of perpetrating the most dreadful crimes. There are types of ugly dispositioned animals, who are always in a
ferocious mood, just like certain ill-tempered human beings, who believe
everything and everybody is trying to injure them. The common shrew, for
example, is noisy, bold and fussy. He seems to delight in calling
attention to himself by his grunty, squeaky voice. He advertises himself
as a bad animal; and bad he is, for his terrible odour prevents other
animals from coming near. Horses and mules are at times quite ferocious,
and kick and bite, with no idea of obedience or kindness. They, of
course, like our human criminals, are mentally unbalanced. Skilled horse
trainers can detect at a glance a criminally inclined horse. Rogue elephants are common in India. Even their trumpeting shows a
ferocity and unbalance that terrifies the natives. Often these criminal
elephants
are sufferers of mental ailments. A respectable, law-abiding elephant
herd will not allow a thug or rogue to live in their midst. They
recognise him as dangerous for their society, and combine to force him
entirely away from their homes. Certain criminal animals have a strange antipathy for members of
their own tribe, or for other kinds of animals. Such is common among
monkeys, cats, horses, and dogs, and many terrible crimes are committed
because of these antipathies. Every one has witnessed the terror of a
dog that has been insulted, and elephants will carry an old grudge for
fifty years and finally seek the most terrible revenge. Often violent outbursts of temper on the part of a tame animal are
caused by a change in the temperature or atmosphere. Even animals have
days when they feel ugly and grouchy. Those that live in very hot
climates are especially subject to fits of rage and anger. The approach
of an electrical storm causes many of them to lose their self-control:
herds of cattle often stampede just preceding a cyclone. They, like
human savages, seem terrorised at the unknown. Not a few wild animals
have actually run in the way of an automobile or passing train to
attempt to stop it. Fear and rage are
often caused by the appearance of a curious object. A bull, for example,
when he sees a red rag, will madly rush at it, seemingly altogether
oblivious of the man holding it. The matadors are safe only because the
bull is insane from rage. Many scientists of fame, like Lombroso, have demonstrated that strong
drink is the cause of much crime among animals, the same as it is among
men. In the pastures of Abyssinia the sheep and goats get on regular
"drunks" by eating the beans of the coffee plants. They fight and
carouse at such times like regular topers. Elephants are incorrigible
when drunk, while dogs and horses have to be put in strait-jackets to
prevent them from killing themselves. Wicked animals always seek their own kind, and often band together
for evil purposes. Figuier tells of three beavers that built for
themselves a nice little home near a stream, and they had as a neighbour
a respectable hermit beaver. The three called on their neighbour one
day, and he received them cordially, and hastened to return their visit,
when they pounced upon him and slew him, like human murderers, who had
trapped their victim. From all these we learn that Nature is filled with life-saving and
life-furthering adaptations. Just as in the human drama we find deceit,
disguise,
mask, trickery, bunco and bluff, all forms of cheating and clever
deceptions, so it is precisely the same in the animal world, though man
is little informed on Nature's real ways. XIV

AS THE
ALLIES OF MAN

"Who, after this, will dare
gainsay

That beasts have sense as well as
they? For me–could I the ruler
be–

They should have just as much as
we,

In youth, at least.