In early
years,

Who thinks, reflects, or even
fears? Or if we do–unmeaning
elves–

'Tis scarcely known e'en to
ourselves. Thus by example clear and
plain,

We for these poor creatures
claim

Sure sense to think, reflect, and
plan,

And in this action rival
man:

Their guide–not instinct blind
alone,

But reason, somewhat like our
own!"

The wonderful world in which we live is full of animal life. In the
great forests, under the ground, on the steep mountainsides, in the
depths of the oceans, rivers, streams, from the frigid north to the
torrid south, in the parched deserts, are animals of every size, colour,
and form, all of which are, in their general form, adapted to their
peculiar places in nature. Their lives and habits undeniably demonstrate
proofs of divine wisdom, intelligence, and beneficence. In fact they
show an aptitude in many arts and sciences second only to that shown in
man. The reason that animals are often held in such low esteem by the
world of science, is because people are apt to look upon them as natural
mechanisms and overlook what they are doing and feeling. The propounders
of false statements which attribute every act of an intelligent
animal–second only to man and his faithful ally–as due to instinct only,
deal with metaphysical reasoning. They have never considered the
innumerable and irrefutable facts of animal life which no acuteness of
analysis and pure thinking can ever explain. Most of these narrow,
bookish men deny to animals capabilities which every country schoolboy
knows they possess. It is no exaggeration to say that animals exist
which sing, dance, play, speak a language, build homes, go to school and
learn, wage warfare, protect their homes and property, marry, make laws,
build moral codes, in fact, do everything that is generally attributed
to man. In comparing man and animals scientists are prone to ascribe to man
as a whole the faculties which only the best trained and most talented
possess. They fail to consider our cannibal brethren, such as are found among the
Dyaks on the Island of Borneo, whose chief articles of adornment in the
house are heads of murdered men, and whose savage and fiendish ways
would put to shame a civilised animal. They forget how long man lived on
this earth before he even learned to make fire by chipping flints. Since the beginning of time animals have been the friends and allies
of man. From the very earliest ages they have in innumerable ways been
associated with historical events, and with the laws, customs,
superstitions, and religions of all nations of the universe. Love,
devotion, gratitude, the sense of duty, as well as all the lower
passions of hatred, revenge, distrust and cunning are their heritage. Only an egotist who has known them in books only, and knows nothing of
their mentality and brain power, would dare say that they are governed
solely by instinct. Cases of animal suicide, following some deep
disgrace among them, are not uncommon. From the Bible we learn that God frequently employed animals as
agents to dispense His providence. Bullocks, sheep, goats were used by
the Jews in their religious services, while a disobedient prophet was
killed by a lion. Balaam was rebuked for
his cruelty by an ass; and David even called upon the animals to aid in
praising Jehovah! That we may learn real gratitude for common mercies
Isaiah says: "The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib,"
etc. When the city of Nineveh was threatened, God had pity on it,
because there were many cattle there. The Saviour compared his own
earthly condition with that of certain animals: "The foxes have holes,"
etc. He called himself the 'Good Shepherd,' and his followers were sheep
who knew his voice. John the Baptist referred to Him as the 'Lamb of
God'; while John, the beloved disciple, when on the Isle of Patmos, saw
the "throne of God in heaven, and before it a lion, a calf, a man, and a
flying eagle."

The first beginnings of co-operation between men and animals must
have begun by the approach of certain less timid animals, which felt
that better conditions for them and more food could be obtained near
human habitations, and perhaps, more protection from dangerous animals. Or it may have begun through the stupidity of certain animals who failed
to realize the danger of man's proximity.