It seems that the secret ambition of all animals is to become the
allies of man. This is demonstrated by the fact that most of them have
gone near the villages and towns, and, consequently, there are
comparatively few remaining in the heart of the big forests. Under the
true state of conditions man should live in harmony with these animal
brothers, with mutual trust and respect existing between them. That
would mean, of course, that man would have to show a little more
kindness to them. For while he is their true sovereign, he abuses the
privileges of his sovereignty in untold ways, and up to the present time
only a few animals, like the dog and horse, have been fully recognized
as his allies. All the others, with few exceptions, have shown a desire to become
more closely united with man, and yet during the thousands of years of
man's rulership over the beasts, he has been able to make allies of only
about sixty. This regrettable fact speaks for itself–showing that man
has long abused his trust. Warfare, as it is waged to-day, demonstrates that notwithstanding
man's vast number of scientific aids, animals are still invaluable. The
innumerable mechanical and electrical devices unknown ten years ago,
such as enormous rapid-firing guns, walking "Willies," wireless
machines, traction engines, smokeless and noiseless powder,
silent-sleepers and tear-bombs, all of these have greatly increased
man's power of offence and defence, yet with all these ultra-modern
improvements, animals are
absolutely essential in waging a successful war. In military circles there is an ever-increasing demand for
well-trained army horses, sound in mind and body and educated in modern
campaigning. Above all, an army horse must be dependable, must love his
soldier-master and must know absolute obedience to orders. Every army
horse has to pass an examination and prove his worth before he is
enlisted into the service. The largest of the mountain guns used in Italy against the Austrians
were drawn up the steep mountains by mules. Another 75-millimetre gun
for mountain warfare is taken to pieces, into four parts, and each piece
is separately packed on a mule. The United States cavalry has the best trained war horses in the
world; many of them actually understand the complicated commands of
their masters. These horse soldiers have the insignia, U. S., branded on
the hoof of the left forefoot, and the other animals in camp, on the
shoulder. When a horse arrives at a regiment he is assigned to a troop
according to colour, size, weight and mental efficiency, and later he is
permanently assigned to a man. Under no conditions is he interchanged or
even ridden by another than his master, and it is astonishing the
tremendous affection that
oft-times springs up between the two; in many instances horses have been
known to seek out their masters among hundreds of soldiers. On the European battlefields, near which there are few or no
railroads, animals have been the principal means of transportation,
elephants, camels, horses, mules and oxen being chiefly used for this
purpose. The Italian armies have used numerous teams of mountain-trained
bullocks to draw loads up the mountains, and, while they cannot ascend
roads as steep as those which the mules climb, they are very valuable
for heavy loads. These bullocks work faster than an army mule, for a
mule will never hurry. As the old darkey once said, "De mule warn't born
fer to hurry; not even a torpedo would make him move one step
farster!"

Elephants have been used to a small degree in the armies of Europe. While they are splendid workmen, they are dangerously subject to
stampede, and one stampeding elephant can do much harm in an army. The British army has used quite a few trained elephants from India in
their ranks. They are especially employed to rout the enemy from small
forests.