Breaking through bushes, crushing underbrush, and pulling up
small trees is their specialty. They
make splendid bulwarks for soldiers, and when an army is marching
through a forest, are invaluable in clearing the way. A British officer
declared that one trained elephant is more valuable than a half-dozen
traction engines. Far the most interesting and curious use to which an animal is
subjected is the use of camels chosen and trained because of their
strange colouring and height. Small groups of them have been stationed
among clumps of acacia trees with a spy mounted on the animal's neck. This is the safest place a person could be, for the camel or, in like
manner, the giraffe, standing with only his head above the small trees,
looks precisely like a bit of the foliage in the distance. Camels are especially good for desert warfare, because they can go
without water so long and can easily carry loads weighing from 400 to
500 pounds. In the last Afghan campaign the British lost over 50,000
camels and in the Great War they have had more than 60,000 in army
service in Egypt. Camels are especially used for transportation
purposes. The British capture of Jerusalem was greatly aided by these
desert allies. Large numbers of oxen have been used in the French army. They do not balk at autos and know no fear of shells. One of the greatest allies of the animal kingdom in
warfare is the dog. These allies are trained to aid relief parties on
the battlefields, and many of the ambulance men have their splendidly
trained dogs for seeking out wounded soldiers among the dead. They are
also trained as guards and watch-dogs and they become marvellously
clever when used near the firing lines. They carry water in the trenches
and are trained in packs to dismount enemy motorcyclists by pulling them
from their machines. Dogs also make splendid scouts, and excellent and
reliable messengers when not required to go too far. These faithful friends of man, according to Buffon, are far more
easily taught than man, and more easily led "than any of the other
animals, for not only does the dog become educated in a short time, but
even adapts himself to the habits of those who control him." According
to circumstances, a dog may become a soldier, messenger, water-carrier,
or guard. ESQUIMO-DOG

THE
ESQUIMO-DOG IS MAN'S GREATEST FRIEND IN THE FAR NORTH. CHIPMUNKS

American Museum of Natural History, New York

CHIPMUNKS
ARE AMONG THE MOST EASILY TAMED OF MAN'S WILD FRIENDS, AND THEY EVEN
SEEM FOND OF HUMAN COMPANIONSHIP. Not the least among the uses of war dogs is the curious practice of
sending them into the enemies' lines of cavalry to convey fire in order
to terrorise the horses and throw them into confusion.