This practice has
been quite common in the past. Each dog is dressed in a cuirass of
leather and on his back is carefully strapped a pot of boiling, blazing
tar. Nothing so terrorises horses as the sight of approaching fire. A small but valuable ally to man is the ferret. This little creature
has come into prominence more particularly during recent years, when the
rat infested trenches have made his services invaluable. These Hun-like
rats, devouring and devastating in their thirst for human blood, would
have forced the abandonment of many a front line trench but for the aid
of these trained ferrets, thousands of which have been daily employed on
the battle fronts. The immense services rendered by carrier pigeons in the battle of the
Marne, not only to the military authorities, but also to the public at
large, will cause the civilised world to pay more attention to the
importance of these birds in the future. They carried all kinds of
messages to and from Paris during this memorable battle; in fact, they
have been used in all the battles as invaluable messengers. Small animals, such as mice, canary birds, guinea pigs and rabbits
are used in trench warfare, because they are more sensitive than man to
poisonous gases. It sometimes happens that hundreds of men must be
rescued from a trench by three or four men. Each rescuer carries with
him a canary bird in a small cage attached to his shoulder. And as long
as these birds show no signs of distress the men are safe
from gas poison. The birds soon become attached to their masters and
seem to like the adventure of the trenches. As time goes on, it is to be hoped that we will understand our animal
brothers better, and that our old attitude toward the so-called "brutes"
will be entirely changed. Heretofore we have greatly abused the zebra,
for example, because of his wild disposition, ferocious humour, distrust
of all power except that in his own legs, and his pronounced aversion to
work. Why should we reproach him for his wildwood philosophy? It is
perfectly natural that any animal of his experience with man, and with
sufficient brains, would have only contempt for all mankind. His native
home is in Africa, and his human associates, if they are human, have
been the Hottentots, the Namaquois or the Amazoulons–the most impossible
and hideous people on the earth. Since his babyhood days he has seen
nothing but cannibalism and carnage among the savages; and since his
transportation to Europe by a strange occurrence of horrible
circumstances, he has been the subject for all kinds of barbarous
punishments which man has seen well to heap upon him. The zebra is not
of the mental calibre to be suddenly seized with love for the human
species and its civilisations! And the
human species is astounded and thinks the zebra stupid and wicked. He
may be both, but his wisdom is undeniable when it comes to trusting
humanity, and his wickedness is small in comparison to man's terrible
cruelties.