210

41. The Lenape Stone, Reduced

219

INTRODUCTORY
AND EXPLANATORY

At the present time the interest in the ancient life of this
earth is greater than ever before, and very considerable sums of money
are being expended to dispatch carefully planned expeditions to various
parts of the world systematically to gather the fossil remains of the
animals of the past. That this interest is not merely confined to a few
scientific men, but is shared by the general public, is shown by the
numerous articles, including many telegrams, in the columns of the daily
papers. The object of this book is to tell some of the interesting facts
concerning a few of the better known or more remarkable of these extinct
inhabitants of the ancient world; also, if possible, to ease the strain
on these venerable animals, caused by stretching them so often beyond
their due proportions. The book is admittedly somewhat on the lines of
Mr. Hutchinson's "Extinct Monsters" and "Creatures of Other Days," but
it is hoped that it may be considered with books as with boats, a good
plan to build after a good model. The information scattered through
these pages has been derived from varied sources; some has of necessity
been taken from standard books, a part has been gathered in the course
of museum work and official correspondence; for much, the author is
indebted to his personal friends, and for a part, he is under
obligations to friends he has never met, who have kindly responded to
his inquiries. The endeavor has been conscientiously made to exclude all
misinformation; it is, nevertheless, entirely probable that some
mistakes may have crept in, and due apology for these is hereby made
beforehand. The author expects to be taken to task for the use of scientific
names, and the reader may perhaps sympathize with the old lady who said
that the discovery of all these strange animals did not surprise her so
much as the fact that anyone should know their names when they were
found. The real trouble is that there are no common names for these
animals. Then, too,
people who call for easier names do not stop to reflect that, in many
cases, the scientific names are no harder than others, simply less
familiar, and, when domesticated, they cease to be hard: witness
mammoth, elephant, rhinoceros, giraffe, boa constrictor, all of which
are scientific names. And if, for example, we were to call the
Hyracotherium a Hyrax beast it would not be a name, but a description,
and not a bit more intelligible. Again, it is impossible to indicate the period at which these
creatures lived without using the scientific term for it–Jurassic,
Eocene, Pliocene, as the case may be–because there is no other way of
doing it. Some readers will doubtless feel disappointed because they are
not told how many years ago these animals lived. The question is often
asked–How long ago did this or that animal live? But when the least
estimate puts the age of the earth at only 10,000,000 years, while the
longest makes it 6,000,000,000, it does seem as if it were hardly worth
while to name any figures. Even when we get well toward the present
period we find the time that has elapsed since the beginning of
the Jurassic, when the Dinosaurs held carnival, variously put at from
15,000,000 to 6,000,000 years; while from the beginning of the Eocene,
when the mammals began to gain the supremacy, until now, the figures
vary from 3,000,000 to 5,000,000 years. So the question of age will be
left for the reader to settle to his or her satisfaction. The restorations of extinct animals may be considered as giving
as accurate representations of these creatures as it is possible to
make; they were either drawn by Mr. Knight, whose name is guarantee that
they are of the highest quality, or by Mr.