Wortman spent almost an entire season in the field without success, and
then, at the eleventh hour, found the now famous skeleton of Phenacodus,
or that a party from Princeton actually camped within 100 yards of a
rich deposit of rare fossils and yet failed to discover it. Let us, however, suppose that the reconnaissance has been successful,
and that an outcrop of bone has been found, serving like a tombstone
carven with strange characters to indicate the burial-place of some
primeval monster. Possibly Nature long ago rifled the grave, washing
away much of the skeleton, and leaving little save the fragments visible
on the surface; on the other hand, these pieces may form part of a
complete skeleton, and there is no way to decide this important question
save by actual excavation. The manner of disinterment varies, but
much depends on whether the fossil lies in comparatively loose shale or
is imbedded in the solid rock, whether the strata are level or dip
downward into the hillside. If, unfortunately, this last is the case, it
necessitates a careful shoring up of the excavation with props of
cotton-wood or such boards as may have been brought along to box
specimens, or it may even be necessary to run a short tunnel in order to
get at some coveted bone. Should the specimen lie in shale, as is the
case with most of the large reptiles that have been collected, much of
that work may be done with pick and shovel; but if it is desirable or
necessary to work in firm rock, drills and hammers, wedges, even powder,
may be needed to rend from Nature her long-kept secrets. In any event, a
detailed plan is made of the excavation, and each piece of bone or
section of rock duly recorded therein by letter and number, so that
later on the relation of the parts to one another may be known, or the
various sections assembled in the work-room exactly as they lay in the
quarry. Bones which lie in loose rock are often, one might say usually,
more or less
broken, and when a bone three, four, or even six feet long, weighing
anywhere from 100 to 1,000 pounds, has been shattered to fragments the
problem of removing it is no easy one. But here the skill of the
collector comes into play to treat the fossil as a surgeon treats a
fractured limb, to cover it with plaster bandages, and brace it with
splints of wood or iron so that the specimen may not only be taken from
the ground but endure in safety the coming journey of a thousand or more
miles. For simpler cases or lighter objects strips of sacking, or even
paper, applied with flour and water, suffice, or pieces of sacking
soaked in thin plaster may be laid over the bone, first covering it with
thin paper in order that the plaster jacket may simply stiffen and not
adhere to it. Collecting has not always been carried on in this
systematic manner, for the development of the present methods has been
the result of years of experience; formerly there was a mere
skimming-over of the surface in what Professor Marsh used to term the
potato-gathering style, but now the effort is made to remove specimens
intact, often imbedded in large masses of
rock, in order that all parts may be preserved. We will take it for granted that our specimens have safely passed
through all perils by land and water, road and rail; that they have been
quarried, boxed, carted over a roadless country to the nearest railway,
and have withstood 2,000 miles of jolting in a freight-car. The first
step in reconstruction has been taken; the problem, now that the boxes
are reposing on the work-room floor, is to make the blocks of stone give
up the secrets they have guarded for ages, to free the bones from their
enveloping matrix in order that they may tell us something of the life
of the past. The method of doing this varies with the conditions under
which the material has been gathered, and if from hard clay, chalk, or
shale, the process, though tedious enough at best, is by no means so
difficult as if the specimens are imbedded in solid rock. In this case
the fragments from a given section of quarry must be assembled according
to the plan which has been carefully made as the work of exhumation
progressed, all pieces containing bone must be
stuck together, and weak parts strengthened with gum or glue. Now the
mass is attacked with hammer and chisel, and the surrounding matrix
slowly and carefully cut away until the contained bone is revealed, a
process much simpler and more expeditious in the telling than in the
actuality; for the preparator may not use the heavy tools of the
ordinary stone-cutter: sometimes an awl, or even a glover's needle, must
suffice him, and the chips cut off are so small and such care must be
taken not to injure the bone that the work is really tedious. This may,
perhaps, be better appreciated by saying that to clean a single vertebra
of such a huge Dinosaur as Diplodocus may require a month of continuous
labor, and that a score of these big and complicated bones, besides
others of simpler structure, are included in the backbone. The finished
specimen weighs over 120 pounds, while as originally collected, with all
the adherent rock, the weight was twice or thrice as great. Such a mass
as this is comparatively small, and sometimes huge blocks are taken
containing entire skulls or a number of bones, and not infrequently
weighing a ton. The largest single specimen is a skull of Triceratops,
collected by Mr. J.