W. Colenso,
later on Bishop of New Zealand, one of the many missionaries to whom
Science is under obligations. Early in 1838, Bishop Colenso, while on a
missionary visit to the East Cape region, heard from the natives of
Waiapu tales of a monstrous bird, called Moa, having the head of a man,
that inhabited the mountain-side some eighty miles away. This mighty
bird, the last of his race, was said to be attended by two equally huge
lizards that kept guard while he slept, and on the approach of man
wakened the Moa, who immediately rushed upon the intruders and trampled
them to death. None of the Maoris had seen this bird, but they had seen
and somewhat irreverently used for making parts of
their fishing tackle, bones of its extinct relatives, and these bones
they declared to be as large as those of an ox. About the same time another missionary, the Rev. Richard Taylor,
found a bone ascribed to the Moa, and met with a very similar tradition
among the natives of a near-by district, only, as the foot of the
rainbow moves away as we move toward it, in his case the bird was said
to dwell in quite a different locality from that given by the natives of
East Cape. While, however, the Maoris were certain that the Moa still
lived, and to doubt its existence was little short of a crime, no one
had actually seen it, and as time went on and the bird still remained
unseen by any explorer, hope became doubt and doubt certainty, until it
even became a mooted question whether such a bird had existed within the
past ten centuries, to say nothing of having lived within the memory of
man. But if we do not know the living birds, their remains are scattered
broadcast over hillside and plain, concealed in caves, buried in the mud
of swamps, and from these we gain a good  idea
of their size and structure, while chance has even made it possible to
know something of their color and general appearance. This chance was
the discovery of a few specimens, preserved in exceptionally dry caves
on the South Island, which not only had some of the bones still united
by ligaments, but patches of skin clinging to the bones, and bearing
numerous feathers of a chestnut color tipped with white. These small,
straggling, rusty feathers are not much to look at, but when we reflect
that they have been preserved for centuries without any care whatever,
while the buffalo bugs have devoured our best Smyrna rugs in spite of
all possible precautions, our respect for them increases. Fig.