H. Townsend seems to rest the responsibility of having,
though quite unintentionally, introduced the Alaskan Live Mammoth into
the columns of the daily press. It befell in this wise: Among the varied
duties of our revenue marine is that of patrolling and exploring the
shores of arctic Alaska and the waters of the adjoining sea, and it is
not so many years ago that the cutter

aright, held the record of farthest north on the Pacific side. On one of
these northern trips, to the Kotzebue Sound region, famous for the
abundance of its deposits of mammoth bones,

[16] the

[16] Elephant
Point, at the mouth of the Buckland River, is so named from the numbers
of mammoth bones which have accumulated there. Fortunately, or unfortunately, there was on board a text-book of
geology containing the well-known cut of the St. Petersburg mammoth, and
this was brought forth, greatly to the edification of the natives, who
were delighted at recognizing the curved tusks and the bones they knew
so well. Next the natives
wished to know what the outside of the creature looked like, and as Mr. Townsend had been at Ward's establishment in Rochester when the first
copy of the Stuttgart restoration was made, he rose to the emergency,
and made a sketch. This was taken ashore, together with a copy of the
cut of the skeleton that was laboriously made by an Innuit sprawled out
at full length on the deck. Now the Innuits, as Mr. Townsend tells us,
are great gadabouts, making long sledge journeys in winter and equally
long trips by boat in summer, while each season they hold a regular fair
on Kotzebue Sound, where a thousand or two natives gather to barter and
gossip. On these journeys and at these gatherings the sketches were no
doubt passed about, copied, and recopied, until a large number of
Innuits had become well acquainted with the appearance of the mammoth, a
knowledge that naturally they were well pleased to display to any white
visitors. Also, like the Celt, the Alaskan native delights to give a
"soft answer," and is always ready to furnish the kind of information
desired. Thus in due time the newspaper man
learned that the Alaskans could make pictures of the mammoth, and that
they had some knowledge of its size and habits; so with inference and
logic quite as good as that of the Tungusian peasant, the reporter came
to the conclusion that somewhere in the frozen wilderness the last
survivor of the mammoths must still be at large. And so, starting on the
Pacific coast, the Live Mammoth story wandered from paper to paper,
until it had spread throughout the length and breadth of the United
States, when it was captured by Mr. Tukeman, who with much artistic
color and some realistic touches, transferred it to McClure's
Magazine, and–unfortunately for the officials thereof–to the
Smithsonian Institution. And now, once for all, it may be said that there is no mounted
mammoth to awe the visitor to the national collections or to any
other; and yet there seems no good and conclusive reason why there
should not be. True, there are no live mammoths to be had at any price;
neither are their carcasses to be had on demand; still there is good
reason to believe that
a much smaller sum than that said to have been paid by Mr. Conradi for
the mammoth which is not in the Smithsonian Institution, would
place one there.[17] It probably could not be done in
one year; it might not be possible in five years; but should any man of
means wish to secure enduring fame by showing the world the mammoth as
it stood in life, a hundred centuries ago, before the dawn of even
tradition, he could probably accomplish the result by the expenditure of
a far less sum than it would cost to participate in an international
yacht race. [17] Since these
lines were written another fine example of the Mammoth has been
discovered in Siberia and even now (Oct., 1901) an expedition is on its
way to secure the skin and skeleton for the Academy of Natural Sciences
at St. Petersburg. REFERENCES

The mounted skeleton of the mammoth in the museum of the Chicago
Academy of Science is still the only one on exhibition in the United
States; this specimen is probably the Southern Mammoth, Elephas columbi,
a species, or race, characterized by its great size and the coarse
structure of the teeth. Remains of the mammoth are common enough but,
save in Alaska, they are usually in a poor state of preservation or
consist of isolated bones or teeth. A great many skeletons of mammoth
have been found by gold miners in Alaska, and with proper care some of
these could undoubtedly have been secured. Naturally, however, the
miners do not feel like taking the time and trouble to exhume bones
whose value is uncertain, while the cost of transportation precludes the
bringing out of many specimens. Some reports of mammoths have been based on the bones of whales,
including a skull that was figured in the daily papers. Almost every museum has on exhibition teeth of the mammoth, and
there is a skull, though from a small individual, of the Southern
Mammoth in the American Museum of Natural History, New York. The tusk obtained by Mr. Beach and mentioned in the text still
holds the record for mammoth tusks. The
greatest development of tusks occurred in Elephas ganesa, a species
found in Pliocene deposits of the Siwalik Hills, India. This species
appears not to have exceeded the existing elephant in bulk, but the
tusks are twelve feet nine inches long, and two feet two inches in
circumference. How the animal ever carried them is a mystery, both on
account of their size and their enormous leverage. As for teeth, an
upper grinder of Elephas columbi in the United States National Museum is
ten and one-half inches high, nine inches wide, the grinding face being
eight by five inches. This tooth, which is unusually perfect, retaining
the outer covering of cement, came from Afton, Indian Territory, and
weighs a little over fifteen pounds. The lower tooth, shown in Fig. 38,
is twelve inches long, and the grinding face is nine by three and
one-half inches; this is also from Elephas columbi. Grinders of the
Northern Mammoth are smaller, and the plates of enamel thinner, and
closer to one another. Mr.