E. Andrews, of Gunsight, Texas, reports
having found a femur, or thigh-bone five feet four inches long, and a
humerus measuring four feet three inches, these being the largest bones
on record indicating an animal fourteen feet high. There is a vast amount of literature relating to the mammoth,
some of it very untrustworthy. A list of all discoveries of specimens in
the flesh is given by Nordenskiold
in "The Voyage of the Vega" and "The Mammoth and the Flood" by Sir Henry
Howorth, is a mine of information. Mr. Townsend's "Alaska Live-Mammoth
Story" may be found in "Forest and Stream" for August 14, 1897. Fig. 37.–The Mammoth as Engraved by a Primitive Artist on a Piece of
Mammoth Tusk. XI

THE MASTODON

".Â Â Â .Â Â Â . who shall place
 A limit to the giant's unchained strength?"

The name mastodon is given to a number of species of fossil elephants
differing from the true elephants, of which the mammoth is an example,
in the structure of the teeth. In the mastodons the crown, or grinding
face of the tooth, is formed by more or less regular 
shaped cross ridges, covered with enamel, while in the elephants the
enamel takes the form of narrow, pocket-shaped plates, set upright in
the body of the tooth. Moreover, in the mastodons the roots of the teeth
are long prongs, while in the elephants the roots are small and
irregular. A glance at the cuts will show these distinctions better than
they can be explained by words. Back in the past, however, we meet, as
we should if there is any truth in
the theory of evolution, with elephants having an intermediate pattern
of teeth. Fig. 38.–Tooth of Mastodon and of Mammoth. There is usually, or at least often, another point of difference
between elephants and mastodons, for many of the latter not only had
tusks in the upper, but in the lower jaw, and these are never found in
any of the true elephants. The lower tusks are longer and larger in the
earlier species of mastodon than in those of more recent age and in the
latest species, the common American mastodon, the little lower tusks
were usually shed early in life. These afford some hints of the
relationships of the mastodon; for in Europe are found remains of a huge
beast well called Dinotherium, or terrible animal, which possessed lower
tusks only, and these, instead of sticking out from
the jaw are bent directly downwards. No perfect skull of this creature
has yet been found, but it is believed to have had a short trunk. For a
long time nothing but the skull was known, and some naturalists thought
the animal to have been a gigantic manatee, or sea cow, and that the
tusks were used for tearing food from the bottom of rivers and for
anchoring the animal to the bank, just as the walrus uses his tusks for
digging clams and climbing out upon the ice. In the first restorations
of Dinotherium it is represented lying amidst reeds, the feet concealed
from view, the head alone visible, but now it is pictured as standing
erect, for the discovery of massive leg-bones has definitely settled the
question as to whether it did or did not have limbs. There is another hint of relationship in the upper tusks of the
earlier mastodons, and this is the presence of a band of enamel running
down each tusk. In all gnawing animals the front, cutting teeth are
formed of soft dentine, or ivory, faced with a plate of enamel, just as
the blade of a chisel or plane is formed of a plate of tempered steel
backed with soft iron; the
object of this being the same in both tooth and chisel, to keep the edge
sharp by wearing away the softer material. In the case of the chisel
this is done by a man with a grindstone, but with the tooth it is
performed automatically and more pleasantly by the gnawing of food. In
the mastodon and elephant the tusks, which are the representatives of
the cutting teeth of rodents, are wide apart, and of course do not gnaw
anything, but the presence of these enamel bands hints at a time when
they and their owner were smaller and differently shaped, and the teeth
were used for cutting. Thus, great though the disparity of size may be,
there is a suggestion that through the mastodon the elephant is
distantly related to the mouse, and that, could we trace their
respective pedigrees far enough, we might find a common ancestor. This presence of structures that are apparently of no use, often
worse than useless, is regarded as the survival of characters that once
served some good purpose, like the familiar buttons on the sleeve or at
the back of a man's coat, or the bows and ruffles on a woman's
dress. We are told that these are put on "to make the dress look
pretty," but the student regards the bows as vestiges of the time when
there were no buttons and hooks and eyes had not been invented, and
dresses were tied together with strings or ribbons. As for ruffles, they
took the place of flounces, and flounces are vestiges of the time when a
young woman wore the greater part of her wardrobe on her back, putting
on one dress above another, the bottoms of the skirts showing like so
many flounces.