W. Andrews of the British Museum has discovered
in Egypt a small and primitive species of mastodon, also the remains of
another animal which he
thinks may be the long sought ancestor of the elephant family, which
includes the mammoth and mastodon. Neither do we at present know just how many species of mastodons
there may have been in the Western Hemisphere, for most of them are
known from scattered teeth, single jaws, and odd bones, so that we
cannot tell just what differences may be due to sex or individual
variation. It is certain, however, that several distinct kinds, or
species, have inhabited various parts of North America, while remains of
others occur in South America. The mastodon, however, the one
most recent in point of time, and the best known because its remains are
scattered far and wide over pretty much the length and breadth of the
United States, and are found also in southern and western Canada, is the
well-named Mastodon americanus,[19] and unless otherwise specified this
alone will be meant when the name mastodon is used. In some localities
the mastodon seems to have abounded, but between the Hudson and
Connecticut Rivers indications of its former presence
are rare, and east of that they are practically wanting. The best
preserved specimens come from Ulster and Orange Counties, New York, for
these seem to have furnished the animal with the best facilities for
getting mired. Just west of the Catskills, parallel with the valley of
the Hudson, is a series of meadows, bogs, and pools marking the sites of
swamps that came into existence after the recession of the mighty
ice-sheet that long covered eastern North America, and in these many a
mastodon, seeking for food or water, or merely wallowing in the mud,
stuck fast and perished miserably. And here to-day the spade of the
farmer as he sinks a ditch to drain what is left of some beaver pond of
bygone days, strikes some bone as brown and rugged as a root, so like a
piece of water-soaked wood that nine times out of ten it is taken for a
fragment of tree-trunk. [19] This has also
been called giganteus and ohioticus, but the name americanus claims
priority, and should therefore be used. The first notice of the mastodon in North America goes back to 1712,
and is found in a letter from Cotton Mather to Dr. Woodward (of
England?) written at Boston on November 17th, in which he speaks of a
large work in
manuscript entitled Biblia Americana, and gives as a sample a
note on the passage in Genesis (VI. 4) in which we read that "there were
giants in the earth in those days." We are told that this is confirmed
by "the bones and teeth of some large animal found lately in Albany, in
New England, which for some reason he thinks to be human; particularly a
tooth brought from the place where it was found to New York in 1705,
being a very large grinder, weighing four pounds and three quarters;
with a bone supposed to be a thigh-bone, seventeen feet long," the total
length of the body being taken as seventy-five feet. Thus bones of the
mastodon, as well as those of the mammoth, have done duty as those of
giants. And as the first mastodon remains recorded from North America came
from the region west of the Hudson, so the first fairly complete
skeleton also came from that locality, secured at a very considerable
outlay of money and a still more considerable expenditure of labor by
the exertions of C. W. Peale. This specimen was described at some length
by Rembrandt Peale in a privately printed pamphlet, now
unfortunately rare, and described in some respects better than has been
done by any subsequent writer, since the points of difference between
various parts of the mastodon and elephant were clearly pointed out. This skeleton was exhibited in London, and afterwards at Peale's Museum
in Philadelphia where, with much other valuable material, it was
destroyed by fire. Struck by the evident crushing power of the great ridged molars,
Peale was led to believe that the mastodon was a creature of carnivorous
habits, and so described it, but this error is excusable, the more that
to this day, when the mastodon is well known, and its description
published time and again in the daily papers, finders of the teeth often
consider them as belonging to some huge beast of prey. Since the time of Peale several fine specimens have been taken from
Ulster and Orange Counties, among them the well-known "Warren Mastodon,"
and there is not the slightest doubt that many more will be recovered
from the meadows, swamps, and pond holes of these two counties. Fig. 39.–The Missourium of Koch, from a Tracing of the Figure
Illustrating Koch's Description. The next mastodon to appear on the scene was the so-called Missourium
of Albert Koch, which he constructed somewhat as he did the Hydrarchus
(see p. 61) of several individuals pieced together, thus forming a
skeleton that was a monster in more ways than one. To heighten the
effect, the curved tusks were so placed that they stood out at right
angles to the sides of the head, like the swords upon the axles of
ancient war chariots. Like Peale's specimen this was exhibited in
London, and there it still remains, for, stripped of its superfluous
bones, and remounted, it may now be seen in the British Museum. Many a mastodon has come to light since the time of Koch, for while
it is commonly supposed that remains of the animal are great rarities,
as a matter of fact they are quite common, and it may safely be said
that during the seasons of ditching, draining, and well-digging not a
week passes without one or more mastodons being unearthed. Not that
these are complete skeletons, very far from it, the majority of finds
are scattered teeth, crumbling tusks, or massive leg-bones, but still
the
mastodon is far commoner in the museums of this country than is the
African elephant, for at the present date there are eleven of the former
to one of the latter, the single skeleton of African elephant being that
of Jumbo in the American Museum of Natural History. If one may judge by
the abundance of bones, mastodons must have been very numerous in some
favored localities such as parts of Michigan, Florida, and Missouri and
about Big Bone Lick, Ky. Perhaps the most noteworthy of all deposits is
that at Kimmswick, about twenty miles south of St.